---
title: Grounded
date: 2024-07-06
tags: 
---

# Grounded
## Introduction
- "divine nearness" she refers to her *A People's History of Christianity*.
- Part of the larger effort to move past the *dualism* of the broader tradition. *sarx* vs. *pneuma* 
- cp. *Supper of the Lamb* (Capon) cf. https://www.amazon.com/Supper-Lamb-Culinary-Reflection-Library/dp/0375760563
- cp. embracing *feelings* in ? 
- cp. 1960's effort to reform Christian ethics. 
- reactionaries today seeking to murder and lay to rest. [The 60's and the Decline of the Christian West](https://chalcedon.edu/resources/articles/the-60s-and-the-decline-of-the-christian-west "The 60's and the Decline of the Christian West") [The 60's and the Decline of the Christian West](The 60's and the Decline of the Christian West.md) :reactionary:

- [Churches and Moral and Social Change, 1960–1970 | Churches and Social Issues in Twentieth-Century Britain | Oxford Academic](https://academic.oup.com/book/25398/chapter-abstract/192519351?redirectedFrom=fulltext "Churches and Moral and Social Change, 1960–1970 | Churches and Social Issues in Twentieth-Century Britain | Oxford Academic")
- 
> Abstract
Within a century in which the Christian Churches had to face and adapt to an unprecedented amount of social change in Britain, the 1960s provided the most intense concentration of innovation and challenge. The new morality found supporters and opponents in the Churches, as well as some who were undecided. On the one hand, it found a champion in Bishop John Robinson. Widely differing approaches were seen in reaction to all the practical manifestations of the moral changes — the relaxation of censorship and the licence shown in publications, films, plays, and television broadcasts; the legalization of abortion and homosexual ads; a notable liberalization of the divorce law; and the growth of premarital and extramarital sexual activity through the adoption of the contraceptive pill, among other reasons. The controversy over the treatment of coloured immigrants had involved Church leaders as much as any other members of society. These developments all happened in the 1960s, but their effects remained to be worked out over many years.



## Ch 1 Dirt
- she seems to have used much from S. McFague's *Body of God*. Then such as Mary Oliver, Wendell Berry, John O'Donohue for inspiration. She has added the scientific research.
- Dust bowl parallels the desecration and sterility of "The American Way"
- The part that is somewhat mystifying for me is whether this is "attractive" to the "nones".

- cf. @JPTLYHIF#Roberts_Amidon_1991 *Earth Prayers: from around the world*

- The discussion was energized around the "scientific" aspect of soil, her unpacking so much. The subheading "Where is God in soil"  is the big question for  me. 
- difference between urban country living.
- Steve kind of gets it: getting grounded is more than the plans, cf. isolation of iphones, etc.
