# A Fractured Supreme Court’s Decisions Remade America In 2024 - The New York Times
  Created: 2024-07-03 08:40

[#](#.md) Introduction

#ted: 2024-07-03T08:40:24 (UTC -04:00)
tags: []
source:
https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/02/us/politics/supreme-court-term-decisions.html
author: Adam Liptak, Alicia Parlapiano
---

# A Fractured Supreme Court’s Decisions Remade America in 2024 - The New York
Times

> ## Excerpt
> > Amid signs of dysfunction and disarray, Chief Justice John Roberts
reasserted his authority, while the influence of Justices Clarence Thomas and
Samuel Alito waned.

---
Amid signs of dysfunction and disarray, Chief Justice John Roberts reasserted
his authority, while the influence of Justices Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito
waned.

![Metal barricades outside the Supreme
Court.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2024/07/02/multimedia/02dc-scotus-jlbh/02dc-scotus-jlbh-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

The Supreme Court term that ended on Monday was studded with more potential
blockbusters than any in recent memory.Credit...Eric Lee/The New York Times

Sign up for the On Politics newsletter.  Your guide to the 2024 elections.

Former President Donald J. Trump had a very good year at the Supreme Court. On
Monday, the court ruled that he is [substantially immune from
prosecution](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/01/us/politics/supreme-court-trump-immunity.html)
on charges that he tried to subvert the 2020 election. On Friday, the court
[cast
doubt](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/28/us/supreme-court-jan-6-obstruction.html)
on two of the four charges against him in what remains of that prosecution. And
in March, the justices [allowed him to seek another
term](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/04/us/politics/trump-supreme-court-colorado-ballot.html)
despite a constitutional provision barring insurrectionists from holding
office.

Administrative agencies had a horrible term. In three 6-to-3 rulings along
ideological lines, the court’s conservative supermajority [erased
a foundational
precedent](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/28/us/supreme-court-chevron-ruling.html)
that had required courts to defer to agency expertise, dramatically [lengthened
the
time](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/01/us/supreme-court-statute-limitations.html)
available to challenge agencies’ actions and [torpedoed the administrative
tribunals](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/27/us/politics/supreme-court-sec-tribunal.html)
in which the Securities and Exchange Commission brings enforcement actions.

The court itself had a volatile term, taking on a stunning array of major
disputes and assuming a commanding role in shaping American society and
democracy. If the justices felt chastened by the backlash over their 2022
abortion decision, the persistent questions about their ethical standards and
the drop in their public approval, there were only glimmers of restraint,
notably in [ducking two abortion
cases](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/28/us/politics/supreme-court-abortion.html)
in an election year.

The court was divided 6 to 3 along partisan lines not only in Monday’s decision
on Mr. Trump’s immunity and the three cases on agency power, but also in a run
of major cases on
[homelessness](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/28/us/politics/supreme-court-homelessness.html),
[voting
rights](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/23/us/supreme-court-south-carolina-voting-map.html),
[guns](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/14/us/politics/supreme-court-trump-gun-bump-stocks.html)
and [public
corruption](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/26/us/politics/supreme-court-corruption-bribery.html).

An unusually high proportion of divided decisions in argued cases — more than
two-thirds — were decided by 6-to-3 votes. But only half of those decisions
featured the most common split, with the six Republican appointees in the
majority and the three Democratic ones in dissent.

The justices reached unanimous or lopsided rulings in other major cases,
including ones letting abortion pills [remain widely
available](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/13/us/politics/supreme-court-abortion-pill-mifepristone-ruling.html),
allowing the government to [disarm domestic
abusers](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/21/us/politics/supreme-court-guns-domestic-violence.html),
[restoring Mr.
Trump](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/04/us/politics/trump-supreme-court-colorado-ballot.html)
to the Colorado ballot, endorsing the National Rifle Association’s [First
Amendment
rights](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/30/us/supreme-court-nra-first-amendment.html)
and [rejecting
a challenge](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/16/us/politics/supreme-court-cfpb.html)
to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.

[Irv Gornstein](https://www.law.georgetown.edu/faculty/irv-gornstein/), the
executive director of Georgetown’s Supreme Court Institute, said the court’s
liberals by some measures had a good term.

“But most of those wins are an artifact of so many cases coming from the
law-free Fifth Circuit,” he said, referring to the federal appeals court based
in New Orleans. “The judges in that circuit seem to have some kind of
competition to see who can write the most precedent-twisting,
common-sense-defying decision.”

[Pamela Karlan](https://law.stanford.edu/pamela-s-karlan/), a law professor at
Stanford, agreed, saying that “the Fifth Circuit is making the Supreme Court
seem more moderate than it is.”

Even when the justices agreed, though, they very often could not find consensus
on the rationale. Indeed, they issued concurring opinions at a record rate, the
highest since at least 1937 and probably ever. Some of those opinions revealed
fractures on the right, particularly on the role history should play in
constitutional interpretation.

### A Lack of Consensus in Agreement

The rate of concurring opinions — more than one per case — hit a record high.

Source: Analysis by Lee Epstein and Andrew D. Martin, Washington University in
St. Louis; and Michael Nelson, Penn State; using the [Supreme Court
Database](http://scdb.wustl.edu/).

Years reflect the start of terms.

The New York Times

A Fractured Supreme Court’s Decisions Remade America in 2024 - The New York
Times

[Gregory G. Garre](https://www.lw.com/en/people/gregory-garre), a lawyer with
Latham & Watkins who served as U.S. solicitor general in the administration of
George W. Bush, said that “there are signs of dysfunction” among the justices.

“The court is taking an extraordinarily small number of cases,” he said, “and
taking an extraordinarily long time to decide them. And the justices are
writing more and more individual opinions to express their own views. This is
especially pronounced on the right side of the court and has to create some
friction among the justices.”

There was a sense of disarray as the term ended. On Wednesday, the court
[briefly
posted](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/26/us/politics/supreme-court-abortion-idaho.html)
and then promptly withdrew an abortion decision that would not be formally
issued until the next day.

On Thursday, it made [13 separate
corrections](https://www.supremecourt.gov/opinions/slipopinion/23) to four sets
of opinions. In [one of
them](https://www.supremecourt.gov/opinions/23pdf/23a349diff_lkhn.pdf),
blocking a Biden administration plan to combat air pollution, Justice Neil M.
Gorsuch had repeatedly referred to nitrogen oxide as nitrous oxide.

That confusion, Professor Karlan said, “would be just funny (in a laughing-gas
sort of way) if the court weren’t simultaneously kneecapping expert agencies
that do know the difference.”

A look at how individual justices voted in divided cases issued after oral
arguments brings trends at the court into sharp relief, according to [data
compiled and
analyzed](https://static1.squarespace.com/static/60188505fb790b33c3d33a61/t/66835b3da19ef954719f22ca/1719884606361/2023termdatareport.pdf)
by [Lee Epstein](https://epstein.wustl.edu/) and [Andrew D.
Martin](https://andrewdmartin.wustl.edu/meet-andrew-martin/biography/), both of
Washington University in St. Louis, and [Michael J.
Nelson](https://polisci.la.psu.edu/people/mjn15/) of Penn State.

### A Highly Polarized Court

Some of the current justices are among the most conservative and most liberal
in recent history. Each bar represents the rate at which each justice since
1937 voted for a liberal result.

Source: Analysis by Lee Epstein and Andrew D. Martin, Washington University in
St. Louis; and Michael Nelson, Penn State; using the [Supreme Court
Database](http://scdb.wustl.edu/).

Votes in divided cases.

The New York Times

A Fractured Supreme Court’s Decisions Remade America in 2024 - The New York
Times

By that measure, the court is extraordinarily polarized. Two of the four most
conservative justices to serve since 1937 are on the current court: Justices
Clarence Thomas and Samuel A. Alito Jr. (The others were Chief Justices William
H. Rehnquist and Warren E. Burger.)

In that same time span, two of the five most liberal justices are currently
sitting: Justices Sonia Sotomayor and Ketanji Brown Jackson. (The others were
Justices Thurgood Marshall, William J. Brennan Jr. and William O. Douglas.)

![headshot](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/13/multimedia/author-adam-liptak/author-adam-liptak-smallSquare168-v4.png)Adam
Liptak  
Supreme Court reporter

“I try to make the Supreme Court accessible to readers. I strive to distill and
translate complex legal materials into accessible prose, while presenting
fairly the arguments of both sides and remaining alert to the political context
and practical consequences of the court’s work.”

Overall, in divided cases argued in the last term, Democratic appointees voted
for a liberal result 83 percent of the time and Republican ones 33 percent of
the time — a 50 percentage point gap.

### The Court’s Partisan Gap

How often each of the court’s ideological blocs voted for a liberal result.

Source: Analysis by Lee Epstein and Andrew D. Martin, Washington University in
St. Louis; and Michael Nelson, Penn State; using the [Supreme Court
Database](http://scdb.wustl.edu/).

Votes in divided cases. Years reflect the start of terms.

The New York Times

A Fractured Supreme Court’s Decisions Remade America in 2024 - The New York
Times

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.’s leadership of the court was called into
question in 2022 by his lonely concurring opinion in [Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s
Health
Organization](https://www.supremecourt.gov/opinions/21pdf/19-1392_6j37.pdf),
one in which he failed to persuade any of his five conservative colleagues to
join him in restricting but not eliminating the constitutional rights to
abortion.

Two years later, things are looking up for the chief justice. He assigned
himself an unusually large proportion of the term’s majority opinions in the
biggest cases, including the ones on [Mr. Trump’s immunity from
prosecution](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/01/us/politics/supreme-court-trump-immunity.html),
[the Jan.
6 prosecutions](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/28/us/supreme-court-jan-6-obstruction.html),
[the Second
Amendment](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/21/us/politics/supreme-court-guns-domestic-violence.html),
[the Chevron
doctrine](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/28/us/supreme-court-chevron-ruling.html)
and [administrative
tribunals](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/27/us/politics/supreme-court-sec-tribunal.html).

The chief justice was in the majority in divided cases 94 percent of the time,
more than any other member of the court and tying his own record in the term
that ended in 2020. No other chief justice since at least 1953 has been in the
majority as often.

But it is Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh who has been [setting the pace over
time](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/18/us/politics/supreme-court-conservatives-liberals.html).
Since he joined the court in 2018, he has been in the majority 89 percent of
the time, a higher rate than any justice since at least 1953.

It was not long ago that some heralded Justice Thomas as the court’s true
leader, but this term’s data rebuts that idea. He was, for instance, in the
majority in divided cases just 63 percent of the time.

Last term, Justice Alito was part of the pair most likely to disagree, voting
with Justice Elena Kagan just 21 percent of the time. This term, Justice Thomas
was part of both pairs most likely to disagree, voting with Justices Sotomayor
and Kagan just 9 percent of the time.

At the other end of the spectrum, the two justices most likely to vote together
were members of the court’s liberal wing, Justices Kagan and Sotomayor, at 94
percent.

A look at the three justices most apt to vote together in divided cases
confirms two bits of conventional wisdom and dispels a third. The court’s three
liberals — Justices Sotomayor, Kagan and Jackson — voted together 81 percent of
the time, more than any other combination of three justices. They were trailed
by three Republican appointees often said to represent the court’s middle
— Chief Justice Roberts and Justices Kavanaugh and Amy Coney Barrett — at 75
percent.

But agreement among the remaining three justices, who are often lumped together
as the court’s hard-right wing — Justices Thomas, Alito and Gorsuch — was much
lower, at 59 percent. That refutes the story of a 3-3-3 court and highlights
Justice Gorsuch’s independence.

### Trump Justices Are Not the Court’s Most Conservative

How often each justice voted for a liberal result.

Source: Analysis by Lee Epstein and Andrew D. Martin, Washington University in
St. Louis; and Michael Nelson, Penn State; using the [Supreme Court
Database](http://scdb.wustl.edu/).

Votes in divided cases.

The New York Times

A Fractured Supreme Court’s Decisions Remade America in 2024 - The New York
Times

Indeed, he voted for liberal results in divided cases 45 percent of the time,
often siding against the government and [in favor of powerless
litigants](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/15/us/politics/neil-gorsuch-supreme-court-opinions.html).
Since he joined the court in 2017, he has voted for the government just 35
percent of the time, the lowest rate of any member of the court.

When Justices Thomas and Alito were both in the majority in divided cases,
Justice Gorsuch voted with them less often than any other member of the court’s
conservative wing.

Put another way, none of the three members of the court appointed by Mr. Trump
are as conservative as Justices Thomas and Alito.

Justice Barrett, the third Trump appointee, is particularly worth watching,
Professor Epstein said. “Some indicators show that Barrett — though still way
more conservative than her predecessor, Ruth Bader Ginsburg — is moving
somewhat to the left,” she said. “This term she overtook Roberts as the
Republican appointee casting the highest percentage of liberal votes in divided
cases.”

Mr. Trump has [expressed
disappointment](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/21/us/politics/trump-supreme-court.html)
with his choices, and he may be inclined to nominate more extreme justices,
perhaps drawing from the Fifth Circuit, should he gain another term. The four
oldest members of the court are Justice Thomas, 76; Justice Alito, 74; Justice
Sotomayor, 70; and Chief Justice Roberts, 69.

While Mr. Trump was president, his administration did quite poorly in the
Supreme Court in signed decisions in orally argued cases in which the United
States, an executive department, an independent agency or the president himself
was a party, prevailing only 42 percent of the time, the lowest rate since at
least Franklin D. Roosevelt’s administration. The Biden administration, by
contrast, has been on the winning side 54 percent of the time.

### The Trump Administration Has Fared Poorly

The former president won personal victories at the court this term, but his
administration has had the lowest success rate in the modern era.

Source: Analysis by Lee Epstein and Andrew D. Martin, Washington University in
St. Louis; and Michael Nelson, Penn State; using the [Supreme Court
Database](http://scdb.wustl.edu/).

The New York Times

The term that ended on Monday was studded with more potential blockbusters than
any in recent memory. The court defused a few of them, but the term ended with
a series of earth-rattling explosions.

When the justices return in October, they will face what is, for now at least,
a more usual docket. Among the cases the court has agreed to decide are ones on
[transgender care for
minors](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/24/us/politics/supreme-court-transgender-care-tennessee.html)
and so-called [ghost
guns](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/22/us/supreme-court-ghost-guns.html).

There is little reason to think the court will find consensus in those cases.

Mr. Garre said the quarrels among the justices, and particularly the
conservative ones, called to mind a remark ascribed to Justice Oliver Wendell
Holmes Jr., who is said to have compared the Supreme Court to “nine scorpions
in a bottle.”

“Chief Justice Rehnquist once described the job of chief as akin to herding
cats,” Mr. Garre said. “To pick up on Holmes’s saying, maybe the better analogy
these days is herding scorpions.”

[Adam Liptak](https://www.nytimes.com/by/adam-liptak) covers the Supreme Court
and writes [Sidebar,](https://www.nytimes.com/column/sidebar) a column on legal
developments. A graduate of Yale Law School, he practiced law for 14 years
before joining The Times in 2002. [More about Adam
Liptak](https://www.nytimes.com/by/adam-liptak)

A version of this article appears in print on July 3, 2024, Section

A

, Page

1

of the New York edition

with the headline:

In Tense Term, Fractured Court Remade Nation. [Order
Reprints](https://www.parsintl.com/publication/the-new-york-times/) | [Today’s
Paper](https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper)
| [Subscribe](https://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp8HYKU.html?campaignId=48JQY)
Conclusion

