# How The 1904 Marathon Became One Of The Weirdest Olympic Events Of All Time Smithsonian
  Created: 2024-07-03 08:49

[#](#.md) Introduction

#ted: 2024-07-03T08:50:02 (UTC -04:00)
tags: [American History,Fairs,Games and Competition,History,Olympics,SEO
Update,Summer Olympics]
source:
https://www.smithsonianmag.com/history/how-the-1904-marathon-became-one-of-the-weirdest-olympic-events-of-all-time-14910747/
author: Karen Abbott,Ellen Wexler
---

# How the 1904 Marathon Became One of the Weirdest Olympic Events of All Time
| Smithsonian

> ## Excerpt
> > Athletes drank poison, dodged traffic, stole peaches and even hitchhiked
during the 24.85-mile race in St. Louis

---
America’s first Olympics may have been its worst, or at least its most bizarre.
Held in 1904 in St. Louis, the games were tied to that year’s [World’s
Fair](https://explorestlouis.com/itinerary/all-the-worlds-a-fair/), which
celebrated the centennial of the [Louisiana
Purchase](http://www.gatewayno.com/history/LaPurchase.html) while advancing, as
did all such turn-of-the-century
[expositions](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/history/the-rise-and-fall-of-worlds-fairs-180979946/),
the notion of American imperialism.

Although there were moments of surprising and genuine triumph ([George
Eyser](https://olympics.com/en/news/george-eyser-medals-mystery-and-the-games-first-amputee),
a gymnast with a wooden leg, earned six medals, including three gold), the
games were largely overshadowed by the fair, which offered its own roster of
sporting events, including the controversial [Anthropology
Days](http://www.slate.com/articles/sports/fivering_circus/2008/08/olympicsized_racism.html),
in which a group of “savages” recruited from the fair’s international villages
competed in a variety of athletic feats for the amusement of white spectators. 

The Olympics’ signal event, the marathon, was conceived to honor the [classical
heritage of
Greece](https://www.britishmuseum.org/blog/marathons-ancient-origins) and
underscore the connection between the ancient and modern. But from the start,
the 1904 marathon was less showstopper than sideshow, an absurdist spectacle
that seemed more in keeping with the carnival atmosphere of the fair than the
reverential mood of the games. After seeing how the event played out, officials
nearly abolished it for good.

![Group
photo](https://th-thumbnailer.cdn-si-edu.com/F65cCK2Wog7Q8YYVkFyyvXVe0ps=/fit-in/1072x0/filters:focal(2048x1599:2049x1600)/https://tf-cmsv2-smithsonianmag-media.s3.amazonaws.com/filer_public/0a/84/0a843a04-ddc4-484d-b20d-c4f28711abc7/4096px-group_of_runners_in_the_1904_olympic_marathon_race_greek_competitors_and_felix_carbajal_de_soto_of_cuba_-3.jpg)

Some of the athletes competing in the marathon pose for a group photo. [Public
domain via Wikimedia
Commons](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Group_of_runners_in_the_1904_Olympic_Marathon_Race._Greek_competitors_and_Felix_Carbajal_de_Soto_of_Cuba_(-3).jpg)

## The contenders

A few of the runners were recognized athletes who had either [won or placed
in](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/history/the-men-behind-the-first-olympic-team-142232820/)
the Boston Marathon or in previous Olympic marathons. Americans [Sam
Mellor](https://olympics.com/en/athletes/samuel-mellor), A.L. Newton, John
Lordon, [Michael Spring](https://olympics.com/en/athletes/michael-spring-1) and
[Thomas
Hicks](https://artsandculture.google.com/story/thomas-hicks-the-olympic-museum/cAURyxnqwnD81w?hl=en),
all experienced marathoners, were among the favorites.

But the majority of the field was composed of middle-distance runners and
assorted oddball characters. [Fred
Lorz](https://artsandculture.google.com/story/frederick-lorz-the-olympic-museum/sgUxAm5ib1H85A?hl=en),
an American who trained at night because he worked as a bricklayer by day,
earned his spot in the Olympics by placing in a special five-mile race
sponsored by the Amateur Athletic Union. Other noteworthy contenders included
two men from the [Tswana](https://www.britannica.com/topic/Tswana) tribe of
South Africa—the [first Black
Africans](https://olympics.com/en/news/st-louis-marathon-the-strangest-race-in-olympic-history)
to ever participate in the modern Olympics— who were in St. Louis as part of
the South African World’s Fair exhibit. They are [fabled to
have](https://www.newspapers.com/article/st-louis-post-dispatch/150001911/)
arrived at the starting line barefoot, though [photos
show](https://isoh.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/5.pdf) that at least one was
wearing shoes.

![Len Tau and Jan
Mashiani](https://th-thumbnailer.cdn-si-edu.com/nEj8dsZruIoR-0Nm9HA7WHaVPUE=/fit-in/1072x0/filters:focal(2048x2555:2049x2556)/https://tf-cmsv2-smithsonianmag-media.s3.amazonaws.com/filer_public/c5/78/c57851d3-a63d-4bb9-975a-d7216a27a121/4096px-1904_olympic_marathon_participants_len_tau_left_and_jan_mashiani_of_the_tswana_tribe_of_south_africa.jpg)

Len Tau and Jan Mashiani were the first Black Africans to participate in the
modern Olympics. [Public domain via Wikimedia
Commons](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:1904_Olympic_Marathon_participants,_Len_Tau_(left)_and_Jan_Mashiani_of_the_Tswana_tribe_of_South_Africa.jpg)

Then there was [Félix
Carvajal](https://olympics.com/en/athletes/felix-carvajal), a Cuban national
and former mailman who raised money to come to the United States by
demonstrating his running prowess throughout Cuba, once trekking the length of
the island. Upon his arrival in New Orleans, he reportedly lost all his money
in a dice game and had to walk and hitchhike to St. Louis. A 5-foot-1 man, he
presented a slight but striking figure at the starting line, [attired
in](https://lopemagazine.com/2021/04/30/felix-andarin-carvajal-cuba-1904-olympic-marathon-bio/)
a white, long-sleeved shirt; long, dark pants; a beret; and a pair of street
shoes. Legend has it that one fellow Olympian took pity, found a pair of
scissors and cut Carvajal’s trousers at the knee.

## The main event

On August 30, at precisely 3:03 p.m., David R. Francis, president of the
Louisiana Purchase Exposition, fired the starting pistol, and the men were off.
Heat and humidity soared into the low 90s, and the 24.85-mile course—which one
fair official
[called](https://archive.org/details/makingamericante0000dyre/page/89/mode/1up?q=%22the+most+difficult+a+human+being+was+ever+asked+to+run+over%22)
“the most difficult a human being was ever asked to run over”—wound across
roads inches deep in dust. The race was slightly shorter than today’s
marathons, which are almost always 26.2 miles. “This was more like cooking than
civil engineering,” the *[New York
Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2012/04/21/sports/the-marathons-accidental-route-to-26-miles-385-yards.html)*
wrote in 2012. “Race directors designed their courses by a sense of feel, not
by a fastidious recipe.”

The course had seven hills, varying from 100 to 300 feet high, some with
brutally long ascents. In many places, cracked stone was strewn across the
roadway, creating perilous footing. The men had to constantly dodge crosstown
traffic, delivery wagons, railroad trains, trolley cars and people walking
their dogs. Cars carrying coaches and physicians motored alongside the runners,
kicking the dust up and launching coughing spells.

There was only one spot where athletes could officially secure [fresh
water](https://www.newspapers.com/article/the-los-angeles-times-1904-olympic-marat/89162220/),
12 miles from the start of the race. (Carvajal somehow got a drink at a water
tower six miles into the course.) James Sullivan, the chief organizer of the
games, wanted to minimize fluid intake to test the limits and effects of
purposeful dehydration, a common area of research at the time.

Hicks, an experienced runner from Massachusetts, led the 32 starters [from the
gun](https://www.newspapers.com/article/the-courier-journal-1904-08-31hicks-win/16915080/).
William Garcia of California nearly became the first fatality of an Olympic
marathon when he collapsed on the side of the road some eight miles from the
finish. The dust had coated his esophagus and ripped his stomach lining,
causing serious hemorrhaging. Had he gone unaided an hour longer, he might have
bled to death.

Lordon, one of the Americans, suffered a bout of vomiting and gave up. Len Tau,
one of the South African participants, was chased a mile off course by a wild
dog. Carvajal trotted along in his cumbersome shoes and billowing shirt, making
good time even though he paused to chat with spectators in broken English. The
*St. Louis Post-Dispatch*’s car “passed the little Cuban three miles out, still
running at an even gait, and he waved his cap and yelled enthusiastically,” as
the paper
[reported](https://www.newspapers.com/article/st-louis-post-dispatch/150008294/)
the following day.

![Félix
Carvajal](https://th-thumbnailer.cdn-si-edu.com/SIpojjIMzvaHfSBV7nCmUcwnns8=/fit-in/1072x0/filters:focal(299x196:300x197)/https://tf-cmsv2-smithsonianmag-media.s3.amazonaws.com/filer_public/ec/0b/ec0b6b2a-0f6f-46d2-b6fa-7bcbe965e7e6/1904_andarin_carvajal.jpeg)

Félix Carvajal, a Cuban runner, is rumored to have cut his long pants off at
the knee before the race. [Public domain via Wikimedia
Commons](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:1904_Andar%C3%ADn_Carvajal.JPG)

On one occasion, Carvajal stopped at a car, saw that its occupants were eating
peaches, and asked for one. When the strangers refused, he playfully snatched
two of the fruits and ate them as he ran. A bit further along the course, he
stopped at an orchard and snacked on some apples, which turned out to be
rotten. Suffering from stomach cramps, he laid down and took a nap. Mellor, now
in the lead, also experienced severe cramping. He slowed to a walk and
eventually stopped. At the nine-mile mark, cramps also plagued Lorz, who
decided to hitch a ride in one of the accompanying automobiles, waving at
spectators and fellow runners as he passed.

![Sam
Mellor](https://th-thumbnailer.cdn-si-edu.com/s3wnBy68NL1Pw4lR8-FGbU_Csgg=/fit-in/1072x0/filters:focal(2048x1629:2049x1630)/https://tf-cmsv2-smithsonianmag-media.s3.amazonaws.com/filer_public/c8/b6/c8b68371-998e-4615-b467-c3dbe5dc9f7e/4096px-sam_mellor_of_the_mohawk_athletic_club_from_new_york_city_running_in_the_marathon_race_at_the_1904_olympics.jpg)

Sam Mellor, an American runner, experienced severe cramping during the event.
[Public domain via Wikimedia
Commons](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Sam_Mellor_of_the_Mohawk_Athletic_Club_from_New_York_City,_running_in_the_Marathon_Race_at_the_1904_Olympics.jpg)

At the time, the rules of the Olympic marathon “allowed runners to be coached
and assisted by race officials,” writes George R. Matthews in *[America’s First
Olympics: The St. Louis Games of
1904](https://www.google.com/books/edition/America_s_First_Olympics/WKRUmep515oC?hl=en&gbpv=1&bsq=%22assisted%20by%20race%20officials%22)*.
Hicks, one of the early American favorites, “received an inordinate amount of
coaching and some extraordinary assistance during the marathon.”

At the ten-mile mark, Hicks came under the care of a two-man support crew, whom
he begged for a drink. They refused, instead sponging out his mouth with warm
distilled water. Seven miles from the finish, his handlers fed him a concoction
of strychnine and egg whites—the first recorded instance of drug use in the
modern Olympics, which had no rules about performance-enhancing drugs [at the
time](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4953490/). Strychnine, in
small doses, was commonly used a stimulant at the time; today, the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention [describes
it](https://emergency.cdc.gov/agent/strychnine/basics/facts.asp) as a “strong
poison” that is “used primarily as a pesticide, particularly to kill rats.”
Hicks’ team also carried a flask of French brandy but decided to withhold it
until they could gauge the runner’s condition.

Meanwhile, Lorz, recovered from his cramps, emerged from his 11-mile ride in
the automobile. One of Hicks’ handlers saw him and ordered him off the course,
but Lorz kept running and finished with a time of 3 hours, 13 minutes. The
crowd roared. But the cheers quickly turned to boos as the truth came to light.
Lorz smiled and claimed that he had never intended to accept the honor; he’d
finished only for the [sake of
a joke](https://www.newspapers.com/article/st-louis-post-dispatch-1904-09-02olymp/16915775/).

## The brandy-fueled victor

Hicks, the strychnine coursing through his blood, had grown ashen and limp.
When he heard that Lorz had been disqualified, he perked up and forced his legs
into a trot. His trainers gave him another dose of strychnine and egg whites,
this time with some brandy to wash it down. They fetched warm water and soaked
his body and head. After the bathing, he appeared to revive and quickened his
pace. Race official Charles Lucas
[wrote](https://tile.loc.gov/storage-services/service/gdc/gdclccn/06/00/34/79/06003479/06003479.pdf):

> Over the last two miles of the road, Hicks was running mechanically—like
a well-oiled piece of machinery. His eyes were dull, lusterless; the ashen
color of his face and skin had deepened; his arms appeared as weights well tied
down; he could scarcely lift his legs, while his knees were almost stiff.

![Hicks at the 20-mile
mark](https://th-thumbnailer.cdn-si-edu.com/gycQbm1Noq5y89MkKS1teEm_EQs=/fit-in/1072x0/filters:focal(2048x1560:2049x1561)/https://tf-cmsv2-smithsonianmag-media.s3.amazonaws.com/filer_public/92/c6/92c61c9c-55a4-4d79-8b67-0f75aae5dae5/4096px-thomas_j_hicks_of_cambridge_massachusetts_ymca_leading_the_1904_olympic_marathon_runners_at_the_20_mile_mark.jpg)

Hicks reaches the 20-mile mark. [Public domain via Wikimedia
Commons](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Thomas_J._Hicks_of_Cambridge,_Massachusetts_YMCA_leading_the_1904_Olympic_Marathon_runners_at_the_20_mile_mark.jpg)

The athlete began hallucinating, believing the finish line was still 20 miles
away. During the last mile, he begged for something to eat. Then he begged to
lie down. He drank more brandy but was refused tea. He swallowed two more egg
whites. He walked up the first of the last two hills, then jogged down on the
incline. Swinging into the stadium, he tried to run but was reduced to
a graceless shuffle. The *[St. Louis
Post-Dispatch](https://www.newspapers.com/image/138877784/?terms=%22elastic%20spring%22&match=1)*
described the moments that followed:

There was not a semblance of the elastic spring with which he had started. He
must have heard the uproar about him, but he betrayed no sign of it. He was
past that. He did look up once when the din was at its height. He was within
a few yards of the finish. His lower jaw was hanging as in imbecility, his eyes
stared blankly, but his pitiful expression didn’t change.

Hicks’ trainers carried him over the line, holding him aloft while his feet
moved back and forth, and he was declared the winner. It took four doctors and
one hour for Hicks to feel well enough just to leave the grounds. He
[declared](https://artsandculture.google.com/story/thomas-hicks-the-olympic-museum/cAURyxnqwnD81w?hl=en),
“Never in my life have I run such a tough course. The terrific hills simply
tear a man to pieces.” Hicks and Lorz would meet again at the [Boston
Marathon](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/history/when-bricklayer-bill-won-1917-boston-marathon-it-was-victory-for-all-irish-americans-180968790/)
the following year, which [Lorz
won](https://artsandculture.google.com/story/frederick-lorz-the-olympic-museum/sgUxAm5ib1H85A)—this
time without the aid of anything but his legs.

Get the latest **History** stories in your inbox?

Filed Under: [American
History](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/tag/american-history/),
[Fairs](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/tag/fairs/), [Games and
Competition](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/tag/games-and-competition/),
[History](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/tag/history/),
[Olympics](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/tag/olympics/), [Summer
Olympics](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/tag/summer-olympics/)
Conclusion

