---
id: SD Journals
aliases:
  - SD Journals
tags:
  - journal
---

- # SD Journals

  _These are mostly nvim links (Obsidian.nvim)_

# Cup journal

- [[cup-journal|journaling the cup]]

# November

## [[2024-11-08-Friday]]

_Reflection for Spiritual Direction Course_

1. **I notice…(awareness)**: That my response to Trump is similar to what I feel about Bridget.
2. **I’m curious about… (attentive exploration)**: The injustice of it. The deception of it. The manipulation of it. The invaded of it.
3. **I wonder how I can… (active response)**: What do I do with that observation?

## [[2024-11-07-Thursday]]

It's far from the case that I didn't anticipate the defeat of the American world order on Nov. 5. I did. But I just didn't know what the data was going to be. What the answer was going to be.

The answer came back, before midnight on Nov. 5, that everything was falling in Trump's favor. It was close relatively speaking, but it ended up being an overwhelming victory for the Red Tide.

It is a re-ordering of the world order. It is a grieving like I experienced with the death of RFK Jr.

## [[2024-11-06-Wednesday]]

_Reflection for Spiritual Direction Course_

1. **I notice…(awareness)**: That **Grief** is the feeling at the heart of my response to the election.
2. **I’m curious about… (attentive exploration)**: After several conversations, including lunch with Sandy, I recognized the last time I felt this kind of grief, the kind of epoch changing loss, was when RFK, Jr. was killed. It was the **death** of a dream.
3. **I wonder how I can… (active response)**: How ought I to grieve? Healthy? Clearly my first instinct is to quit, to checkout, to separate from people. I have even less patience for "business as usual" with the church. Visceral reaction to John Meacham.

- NATO is over
- Ukraine will become province of Russia
- Taiwan absorbed into China
- We may become a colony of Russia/China
- St. Anthony in the desert.

# October

- ## [[2024-10-30-Wednesday]]

  _Reflection for Spiritual Direction Course_

  1. **I notice…(awareness)**: I was energized by both the session with Lou and the dinner with Hoopers. I'm a bit surprised by that.
  2. **I’m curious about… (attentive exploration)**: The recommendations for socialization to combat the decline of aging.
  3. **I wonder how I can… (active response)**:

- ## [[2024-10-25-Friday]]

  _Reflection for Spiritual Direction Course_

  1. **I notice…(awareness)**: The wide collection of speakers in the Contemplative Summit feels overly "special", "cute" maybe. Made for spirituality groupies.
  2. **I’m curious about… (attentive exploration)**: I know there's a deep thirst out there. Witness the conversation with Tricia.
  3. **I wonder how I can… (active response)**: What is my place in that. After yesterday's fiasco I was really ready to stop the training.

- ## [[2024-10-23-Wednesday]]

  _Reflection for Spiritual Direction Course_

  1. **I notice…(awareness)**: My pain while sleeping. This time my right arm. It felt like I was fighting something. I thought, perhaps for the first time, yesterday, that I was too old to finish the Spiritual Direction class.
  2. **I’m curious about… (attentive exploration)**: What is my body telling me? For 2 evenings this week I have had my own time while [MP](MP.md) was away: centering prayer then vestry. It felt so free and freeing.
  3. **I wonder how I can… (active response)**: At the least don't let go of my efforts. Was the "fight" of my sleep related to the fight to have my own space and thoughts?

- ### [[2024-10-22-Tuesday]]

  _Reflection for Spiritual Direction Course_

  1. **I notice…(awareness)**: As I got up in the morning, a weariness and a kind of grey fog within me the last 2 days
  2. **I’m curious about… (attentive exploration)**: Is it an aging thing? Is it alcohol? I failed at _Wordle_ this morning.4 guesses with 4 of 5 correct letters. Argh!
  3. I wonder how I can… (active response)\*\*: Accept? Work against? Where is the peace?

- ### [[2024-10-21-Monday]]

  _Reflection for Spiritual Direction Course_

  1. **I notice…(awareness)**: I was able to not go to the East Lake Centering Prayer. It felt so much like a personal indulgence. I said to other people that it was a matter of boundaries.
  2. **I’m curious about… (attentive exploration)**: Whether I just got by by the skin of my teeth? Am I onto something? Am I really got by the balls into doing what [MP](MP.md) wants of me?
  3. **I wonder how I can… (active response)**: A habit? A practice?

- [[Journal 2024-10-12 Sat.md]]
- [[Journal 2024-10-10 Thu|journal 2024-10-10 Thu]]
- [[Journal  06 Oct 2024 Sun|journal 06 Oct 2024 Sun]]
- [[Journal 2024-10-05 Sat|journal 2024-10-05 Sat]]
- [[Journal  04 Oct 2024 Fri|journal  04 Oct 2024 Fri]]
- [[Journal 2024-10-03 Thu|journal 2024-10-03 Thu]]
- [[Journal 2024-10-02 Wed.md]]

- ## September

- [[journal Wed 11 Sep 2024]]
- [[Journal Fri 13 Sep 2024|journal Fri 13 Sep 2024]]
- [[Journal Sat 14 Sep 2024|journal Sat 14 Sep 2024]]
- [[Journal Sun 15 Sep 2024|journal Sun 15 Sep 2024]]
- [[Journal Tue 17 Sep 2024|journal Tue 17 Sep 2024]]
- [[Journal Wed 18 Sep 2024|journal Wed 18 Sep 2024]]
- [[Journal Thu 19 Sep 2024|journal Thu 19 Sep 2024]]
- [[Journal Fri 20 Sep 2024.md]]
- [[Journal Sat 21 Sep 2024|journal Sat 21 Sep 2024]]`
- [[Journal Sun 22 Sep 2024|journal Sun 22 Sep 2024]]
- [[Journal Thu 26 Sep 2024|journal Thu 26 Sep 2024]]
- [[Journal 27 Sep 2024|journal 27 Sep 2024]]
- [[Journal 2024-09-28|journal 2024-09-28]]
- [[Journal 2024-09-30 Mon.md]]
