---
title: mary-jean-commital
date: 2024-09-20
tags: 
---
*Contents*
* [mary-jean-commital](#mary-jean-commital)
    * [Various Prayers](#mary-jean-commital#Various Prayers)
    * [Commital](#mary-jean-commital#Commital)
    * [The Lord's Prayer](#mary-jean-commital#The Lord's Prayer)
    * [The Prayers](#mary-jean-commital#The Prayers)

# mary-jean-commital

-   [Various Prayers](#various prayers){#toc-prayers}
-   [Commital](#commital){#toc-commital}
-   [The Prayers](#the-prayers){#toc-the-prayers}


## Various Prayers

> *Adapted from the **New Zealand Prayer Book***

Father of all,\
we pray to you for those we love but see no longer.\
We thank you for the peace and light you bestow upon them;\
in your loving wisdom and almighty power\
continue to work in them\
the good purpose of your perfect will,\
through Jesus Christ our Lord.\
**Amen.**

God of heaven and earth,\
help us to entrust our loved ones to your care.\
When sorrow darkens our lives, teach us to look to you.\
May we on earth always rejoice in your presence,\
and share with them the rest and peace you give,\
in Jesus Christ our Lord. **Amen.**

God grant to the living, grace;\
to the departed, rest;\
to all the world, peace and concord;\
and to us and to every faithful servant, life everlasting:\
and the blessing of God almighty,\
Father, Son, and Holy Spirit,\
be with you and remain with you for ever. **Amen.**

To God's gracious mercy and protection we commit you;\
God bless you, keep you and be gracious to you;\
The Lord's face shine upon you;\
the light of God's countenance lift you up\
and give you peace. **Amen.**

## Commital

*When all are gathered together, the minister shall say one or more of
the following sentences.*

Jesus said, 'I am the resurrection and the life; even in death, anyone
who believes in me, will live. *John 11:25*

'Set your troubled hearts at rest. Trust in God always, trust also in
me. There are many dwelling places in my Father's house; if it were not
so, I should have told you; for I am going there on purpose to prepare a
place for you. And if I go to prepare a place for you, I shall come
again and receive you to myself, so that where I am, you may be also.
*John 14:1--3*

Saint Paul said, 'I am convinced that there is nothing in death or life,
in the realm of spirits or superhuman powers, in the world as it is or
the world as it shall be, in the forces of the universe, in the heights
or depths -- nothing in all creation that can separate us from the love
of God in Christ Jesus, our Lord. *Romans 8:38*

*The following may be said*

God our Father we thank you for Helen Marie Swanson, the years we shared
with her, the good we saw in her, the love we received from her. We
thank you that she is in your care and trust in your promise of eternal
life through Jesus Christ our Lord. **Amen**.

## The Lord's Prayer

Eternal Spirit, Earth-maker, Pain-bearer, Life-giver,\
Source of all that is and that shall be,\
Father and Mother of us all,\
Loving God, in whom is heaven:

The hallowing of your name echo through the universe!\
The way of your justice be followed by the peoples of the world!\
Your heavenly will be done by all created beings!\
Your commonwealth of peace and freedom sustain our hope and come on
earth.

With the bread we need for today, feed us.\
In the hurts we absorb from one another, forgive us.\
In times of temptation and testing, strengthen us.\
From trials too great to endure, spare us.\
From the grip of all that is evil, free us.

For you reign in the glory of the power that is love,\
now and for ever. Amen

*The Officiant prays*

We thank you, loving Creator, that we have been able to entrust Helen
Marie into your keeping. Through Christ's victory we have hope in life
eternal. So now, we commit the ashes of her mortal body to their
resting-place in the deep. Amen.

*The ashes are placed in their resting place.*

## The Prayers

*The minister says the following prayer.*

Father, accept our praise and thanksgiving for the lives of all your
faithful people who have served you on earth and are now at rest. Grant
that we too may dedicate ourselves to your service, following their good
examples, and share with them your heavenly kingdom; through Jesus
Christ our Lord. **Amen.**

*A priest says*

The God of peace, who by the blood of the eternal covenant brought again
from the dead our Lord Jesus Christ, that great shepherd of the sheep,
make you perfect in every good work, working in you that which is
pleasing and good, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory for ever and
ever. **Amen.**

*The minister and people say together*

**The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the
fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with us all. Amen.**


**Present**\
Dale Hathaway & Mary Pat Sjostrom\
William Hathaway & Karla Hackstaff\
David Hathaway & Laura Guttierez-Spencer\
Julian Hathaway

