# 2024_m08
Created: 2024-08-27 13:09


# Diary 

- notes from Centering prayer on Monday. Pseudo
- Doctors: cardiology, wondering about taking these rest of life, what odds are they. Bantering with colonostomy people.
- Reading Paris Agent: story from centering. "giving up all that we hold onto" cp. the 1st person accounts of characters leaving in execution
- Rupp attempts. Presence in the ordinary is much of it, leading to my sermon.

> The Celtic approach to God opens up a world in which nothing is too common to be exalted and nothing is so exalted that it cannot be made common. —Esther de Waal

- It is making connections that gives me much joy. Simon Harak identified that as my great gift.
- true success in life [2024-08-18.md](2024-08-18.md)
- supplying -- presence at church for weeks. Going to church alone -- first time in memory. ([MP](/MP.md) recovery)
- going through magazine articles
- Dreams of completing something -- not perfect but enough. Somehow with my parenting and the grief of that. *God's crooked lines* a series that I liked and MP didn't.
- making things: making soup and baking during MP recovery.  
- Settling it: we are removing the big tree in the bag. Expensive deal, big metaphoric deal. MP and I had to work through communication issues.
-  [2024-08-04.md](2024-08-04.md) Marc at church with tears at my leading worship. **Grace**
-  Thinking about the way in which the imposed changes of Covid are a part of our corporate memory, narrative experieces …
- My "Cup project" -- didn't grab me ultimately, but the writing and regular reflection have been an important part of the month.
