# 2024-07-17
Created: 2024-07-17 06:46

# Gratitude Journal 

- I'm now at 210# weight. I need to get started going in the other direction. 
- That [MP](/MP.md) has lost so many pounds in the last week.
- There is a batch of things the scale reads. Helpful.
- Cyndi is leaving next Tuesday. Why does it make me want to cry? It feels like a blow comparable to the demise of our country. I had just been weighing that thought when MP told me of Cyndi's plans. There has grown to be too much conflict with his daughters. She said she doesn't like who she's becoming. She needs to go back to her roots. She'll live with her sister until deciding about Ireland. Will we Facetime®?


# Diary 

-[/dream.md](/dream.md) :dream: I was separating from my wife. I was fatalistic about it, but in quiet pain. The person I was separating from was not Mary Pat. 

It may be that it was built on the fact that I was thinking about Emma (and some Lydia) all through the night. Built probably from the piece I read yesterday on "family alienation". [/No Contact America - The New York Times.md](/No Contact America - The New York Times.md) :technical: [technical](/technical.md)

- local path to convert url to markdown: https://github.com/sindresorhus/urls-md command is: **urls-md**. result: this isn't for converting the whole file. doesn't work.
- a bash script to do the same with pandoc: https://gist.github.com/jonlabelle/c7d641973673698da29e3132130d6355 this had problems with certain urls. The result was not very satisfactory.
- **There are many results from searching github itself**. 
- Here is an android app: https://www.fsf.org [markdownr](/markdownr.md)
- [Install apk](/Install apk.md) on chromebook:

## [surgery call list](/surgery call list.md):


