# Gratitude Journal 

- Grateful to not meet Marcus, but sad to not be at the park.
- 7+ hours of sleep
- my first use of the coffee grinder

# Diary 

## Called [O'neil](/O'neil.md)'s re. 
1. remove branch?
2. when scheduled?
3. how payment?

## talk with [/MP.md](/MP.md) re. [finances](/finances.md) esp. cash flow

- She has worked on budget spreadsheet, along with the checking spreadsheet -- cf. in Dropbox
- I told her of my request re. asking me, "What did you purchase?" We agreed on the model that she is responsible for the big-picture and cash flow projections. But we will make decisions on how to make that work together. Model Vestry and treasurer …
- Agreed to improve communication.

# [Movie](/Movie.md) *Anatomy of a scandal*

- the guy was a scoundrel. Privileged and willing to bend the truth to stay on top. 
- acknowledging that the privileged -- and men in particular -- have escaped accountability for sin and evil -- for millenia.
- The story of this 6-part Netflix series was about people who have experienced sexual assault (contact this hotline … ). 
- But the final message was that the victims of assault will prevail in the end. The women got the prize and the better of the male scoundrels: viz. the Prime Minister went down and James went down for … what? raping the woman back in "Uni"? or for burying evidence of a death by overdose? I'm not sure.
- But the real victim in the story, the wife and children, came into her own by bringing down the PM and Kate obviously got to continue her career as a prosecutor for the crown. 
- It was a **melodrama** rather than a **moral tale**. Not a tragedy or a comedy, but a lesser thing. Like a Gunsmoke episode with good guys and bad guys.
-
