# 2024-08-29
Created: 2024-08-10 22:43

# [[Gratitude Journal]] 

- For the frozen wasabi ahi from the freezer tonight. 
- Victoria the dermatologist. She is so young, vibrant, basking in her children.
- For the energy of my Eucharist (John the Baptist)


# Diary 

## Thursday healing mass. 

## Letter to River

As your recent birthday approached, I reflected on how much I don't know about your life, your hopes, your disappointments, your challenges. I felt poorer for that realization. I reflected on my daughters Lydia and Emma and where they were at age 13. 2005 and 2007, respectively. I didn't really know it at the time, but later I realized that I was pretty clueless about what was going on with their inner and outer lives. I loved them fiercely. I used to often tell the story about how parenting has a lot to do with letting go of their hands. "We want them to be safe when they cross a busy road. We hold their hands and cross the traffic together for a period of time. But the point of parenting is that we have to let go of their hands at some point." All of which is to say that you really do have a special place in my heart. You're my Miriam's first born after all. I know that you've navigated the "crossing the traffic" part. what's ahead? Flying, Dancing, writing, Inventing, Healing, Caring … ? It will be a treasure. 

Hau'oli La Hanau,
Aloha,
Grandpa Dale

## Poetry Unbound

[[poetry]] 

Listened on Podcast in car returning home from dermatologist, and trip to church to fetch vestments.

[Poetry Unbound | The On Being Project](https://onbeing.org/series/poetry-unbound/ "Poetry Unbound | The On Being Project")

https://onbeing.org/series/poetry-unbound/

[Closing: Poems as Teachers (ft. Kai Cheng Thom) | Episode 7 | The On Being Project](https://onbeing.org/programs/closing-poems-as-teachers-ft-kai-cheng-thom-episode-7/ "Closing: Poems as Teachers (ft. Kai Cheng Thom) | Episode 7 | The On Being Project")

https://onbeing.org/starting-points/foundations-for-being-alive-now/

> Some of us are called to be bridge people, staking out the vast ground in the middle and heart of our life together, where there is meaningful difference but no desire for animosity. Some of us are called to be patient calmers of fear. This calling is so tender and so urgent if what we truly want is to coax our own best selves and the best selves of others into the light.

## trauma is not sacred

Written by Kai Cheng Thom

Read by Pádraig Ó Tuama

Listen

violence is not special pain is not holy suffering does not make angels abuse defines no one you are more than the things that hurt you you are more than the people you have hurt do not make an altar to your woundedness do not make a fetish out of mine a body belongs to no one a memory is not made to be eaten does it titillate you to hear about assault if i told you my story, would you swallow it whole if i confessed my sins would you feed me to the beasts to purge your own i will show you mine if you show me yours we have all seen the darkness now give us the dawn tell me about the joy you keep in the hollow spaces between your bones tell me again how you laughed when you realized that you were not wholly unlovable i’ll tell you again how i cried when my best friend told me that I was not a bad person remember how we used to count the lines on our palms when we were little how we used to try to read the future for its gifts how we used to make lists of the things we would dream of when finally we were free i will make you a list of the things i’m grateful for i will sing you a litany of reasons to be alive i want to know the songs you wake up for in the morning i want to marvel at the unbelievable graciousness of your being i know that i am capable of pouring love like lavender oil into your cupped palms there is forgiveness like honey pooled in the chambers of our hearts you are the thing i am most grateful for all bodies know how to heal themselves given enough time all demons carry a map of heaven and their scars beneath the skin of every history of trauma  
                there is a love poem waiting deep below

Kai Cheng Thom, “trauma is not sacred” from _a place called No Homeland_. Copyright © 2017 by Kai Cheng Thom. Reprinted with the permission of Arsenal Pulp Press. All rights reserved.
## Healing mass (Beheading of John the Baptist)

[/preaching.md](/preaching.md)

## [Hebrew vocabulary](/Hebrew vocabulary.md)

