# Gratitude Journal 

- [Dream](/Dream.md) after dream about being in Hawai'i. Hawai'i was my natural habitat.
- I went to the gym.
- I got a little more expertize in the whole vim-thing -- expanding on the HP tablet
- Logseq has now compiled for arm64. Installed on HP.

# Diary 

## With re. MP
- A blowup with [/MP.md](/MP.md) this morning around finances. She said to me, "What did you buy with 4 transactions last night?" I had bought things for the kitchen. Then I bought the burr grinder -- something of an extravagance -- but what I thought was the best value for an appliance I use every day and she doesn't at all. Then this morning I bought her birthday present, following the same kind of evaluation. Her response was to say that I am now in charge of finances, spreadsheet and all.
- I responded by being more upset than I have in a long time. Called her the "queen". I know my reaction was the buildup of lots of things: her surgery/recovery, our lifelong pattern that she has been the one who has final say on any purchase, …
- The trigger I think was her asking, "What were the 4 charges last night?" To ask me that way is to question my wisdom in purchasing. It is to "interrogate" me as I put it. If she had said something to the effect, "We need to be careful what we spend because such and such … " I would have been a partner. As it was I was an unequal partner, an underling.
## Tree project
- Trying to get information on what responsibility the County has for trees in easement. It looks to me that they are responsible for maintaining safety, but not for removing. The fact that the roots interfere with the water line is a factor. But who do I get in touch with: e.g. https://pinellas.gov/services/apply-for-a-right-of-way-utilization-permit/ ? [Homeowner](/Homeowner.md) I called the number on the flag put down in yard in anticipation of O'Neil's tree order.  Tue 2024-08-06 15:26:11-0400
- [oneil's proposal](/mnt/chromeos/MyFiles/Downloads/Mrkdown/wiki-vim/assets/oneil-proposal-2.pdf)
- [oneil's proposal local file](./assets/oneil-proposal2.df)
## technical for reading pdfs
Seems the only way to call reader is through netrw explorer
 needing "netrw" which is Vim's native files explorer: directins on use at https://vonheikemen.github.io/devlog/tools/using-netrw-vim-builtin-file-explorer/. This calls the pdf file with "x"

