# 2024-07-15
Created: 2024-07-15 06:54

# Gratitude Journal 

- :dream: [dream](/dream.md) that again felt basically positive. I was involved with caring for others and it was basically working. There were challenges but they were basically being solved.
- Evening with the Hoopers. Larry talked freely but listened freely. I told stories: Stanley Hauerwas, "Have a nice day." Phantom Valley Ranch. He told stories of his marriage to Kathy, riding a horse in West Virginia before their wedding. It was a wild one, planted by a family member purposely to get the outsider. His mixture of feeling about doing funerals back at the former cure. I told re. John Horbuckle.
- MP is losing ½ pound a day the last week.
- Went to the gym. Forgot my water so it was a little abbreviated, but this is one of the things that will keep me going.
- The Miata started twice.

# Diary 

- MP sometimes freaks out when I am upset over something. e.g. if I complain about "the liturgy of Kevin" or try to say that I have had too much of St. Alfred's in a given week, that is turned into "You hate St. Alfred's." I have frequently used as a reference point Scott's observation of some time ago that MP is clearly very **codependent**. She wants to be in charge of everyone's happiness.

[/apply spiritual direction.md](/apply spiritual direction.md)
[/apply spiritual direction-2.md](/apply spiritual direction-2.md)

Completed and sent to Linda.

Though I am consigned to work with **Obsidian** with Wiki-Vim, I think that this vim approach is closer to the Logseq spirit than Obsidian, which feels more like **Notion**.

# [keyboard with alt key](/keyboard with alt key.md)

