# Summary, 2024 week 50

journal:2024-12-09
journal:2024-12-10
journal:2024-12-11
journal:2024-12-12
journal:2024-12-13
journal:2024-12-14
journal:2024-12-15

Lessons and Carols felt so much like a "performance." I am going to stop participating in Kevin's "performance" at the end of the service.

[[/technical.md]]

---
id: "2024-12-10"
aliases: []
tags: []
---
id: "2024-12-11"
aliases: []
tags: []
---
id: "2024-12-12"
aliases: []
tags:
  - gift
---
id: "2024-12-13"
aliases: []
tags: []
---
id: "2024-12-14"
aliases: []
tags: []
---

I was latched onto this evening by Margaret (of Highland Lakes). She is life-long Catholic but has accompanied Dora Lee this past few months (years?). She wants to pass on info about services to help those with no cars. She has mostly stopped driving. She is 92, 93 soon.

Door hinges for kitchen: ordered

The roofers are coming for their inspection of the leak in the kitchen.

Waking from dream with thoughts of systems theory

I'm running out of days til Christmas. I am bereft of any "Christmas Spirit"

- aim to keep several config files synchronized and in a github repository: 
- Using rsync: - .reminder, .vimrc 
- https://docs.rackspace.com/docs/using-rsync-to-synchronize-file#:~:text=Rsync%20stands%20for%20%22remote%20synchronization,instead%20of%20copying%20everything%20again.

[[/pages/Health.md|Health]]

Al Kunkel was talking with Ralph (debating a Maga afficianado.) Earlier apparently had done the same with Marcus. I find myself with no patience for such a thing.

I can go to mass, for the first time since September.

- 38 doors = 76 hinges. 10 pack @ $14, 20 pack @ $18, 50 pack @ 34, 60 pack @ $43. 80 @ $61. delivered 12/16

Order fruit basket for Bill / David

a description of what was made clear with the election was that our society has a terminal illness. Not that a horrid man was elected, but that values up and down the list were validated and accepted. The body allowed the cancer to take over. It will be terminal.

Room partition

Ordered curtains and rod for front room.

"This is a hug from your grandparents" in a card for Miriam to include with kids' "sleep pod" from HUGSLEEP, INC.

Installed gcalcli for access to Google calendar from terminal. I'm writing this from tmux screen with 4 open terminals.

Remind stuff:
- put a "%" at end of every reminder to keep output from double spacing <https://blog.thechases.com/posts/remind/>
- see "checkvist" notes for include for other file

- [partition frame](https://www.amazon.com/SUNALLY-Separation-28-114inch-Adjustable-Freestanding/dp/B0DFH8C526?crid=2EB8FWKB1RNVQ&dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.Anh51fteUjQ1dFobaZNcqg-w_sz5PIeH3SYtE_h3KCJ0MRX5gPF2DaVMrSgKJB37l60QVcO9phOGg-5pREIJpA80d6p83TQouUfmKmiiHgTn6h-8FO_qQyyl9rVI3DcwcMzAVWwVJcp5lBtsXMQ3soAtX5b8Lqc9kmxdnkN98bREOl671m3hAgOGNY54SPnPKou9xqOW5B24sjh8a98mGncBsajA7jfYGcBZVhdEWnizu-7gaPztHcpkF77-cZ5rZAJC2kZQq3UQdlhpM6NyJdxZpgXlat9RBBjI9acKJIo.3cXjEOmFaZLJTKUKaXo5LYAZyCLxExXWI479IJrghRk&dib_tag=se&keywords=room%2Bpartitions%2Band%2Bdividers&qid=1733834222&sprefix=room%2Bparti%2Caps%2C131&sr=8-10&th=1)

Next week we have to go to Dunedin for gym.

- created project "My Project 29311"

- <https://github.com/insanum/gcalcli/blob/HEAD/docs/api-auth.md>
  <https://github.com/insanum/gcalcli/blob/HEAD/docs/api-auth.md>
- Didn't get the easy stuff to work. But eventually I got an awk or gawk command to work (cf. checkvist) getting me a workable csv. In Gdrive Sheets I massaged it into an amazing list, going back to 2008. <https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/10IrDsUa-xgwvFN4-fgtcVzq7jz_0HHtwcMQPQOqY97c/edit?usp=sharing>

[[/Christmas Cards 24.md|Christmas Cards 24]]

[[/Christmas gifts 24.md|Christmas gifts 24]]

Mary Pat wants me to call to get a professional to design us a patio -- to be sent to architectural review committee.

[[soul-of-america|Soul-of-america]] forum

https://meganesulli.com/blog/sync-obsidian-vault-iphone-ipad/

Atomic note-taking

Proton to replace Google ecosystem

