# Summary, 2024 week 51

journal:2024-12-16
journal:2024-12-18
journal:2024-12-19
journal:2024-12-20
journal:2024-12-21

[Spiritual Direction assignments Module 2](/Spiritual Direction assignments Module 2.md)

Hemmed pants. mended broken magi. ordered satin pillowcase (and jammies). [[/MP.md]]

Vacuumed bedroom and sitting room. Found white plugs and did the kitchen pass through window. I couldn't figure out the long plastic filler.

Mostly finished reinstalling Linux on Lenovo after crashing it with an experiment to see if I could get a "desktop installed". A lot of refinements in e.g. vimrc are not yet *accomplished*. 

Zach forgot about our appointment at Church.

The curtain frame and curtain came today. It looks pretty good.

Peter wanted me to give him feedback about NT Wright: *Jesus & Power* or some such

cf. note in[[/technical.md]] wiki-vim in nvim. Other issues in nvim still not straightened out, e.g. keystrokes I had utilized. Also e.g. the display of links in vim. (conceal?) I set conceallevel=2, it's working as per e.g. "accomplished" above. But it doesn't affect the links. 

Worked at getting clipboard working in Android. Just long press.

I lost all the "Clippings I had stored in the ChromeOS documents". 

Talking with Bill, he reported that Emma is in a lot of financial trouble. Owen has orchestrated some of fund for getting her a car. He reported to Bill that the last he and I had talked there was "bad blood" I don't remember such a thing. So he hasn't involved me.

Then discovered again the speed of yazi. Cf. video in Logseq.

I am separating (or setting boundary?) by not going to Centering Prayer at Lutheran Church. It's hard and there was a difficult period where [MP](/MP.md) was (I don't know) "pouty?"

I also lost "markdown".

Todo :todo: #todo 

- [ ] Call Owen: call back later this evening
- [ ] Mail Owen package
- [ ] Tell Owen re. Cecil Alexander [[/Owen Christmas letter.md|Owen Christmas letter]]
- [ ] Scavenger hunt Miriam / Owen
- [ ] Lydia: $200 plus flowers for birthday
- [ ] Julian: $200
- [x] Hem [MP](/MP.md) pants
- [x] report to Peter about Wright's *Jesus and the Powers*

