# Summary, 2024 week 45

journal:2024-11-04
journal:2024-11-05
journal:2024-11-06
journal:2024-11-07
journal:2024-11-08
journal:2024-11-09
journal:2024-11-10

---
id: "2024-11-05"
aliases: []
tags: []
---
id: "2024-11-06"
aliases: []
tags: []
---
id: "2024-11-07"
aliases: []
tags:
  - daily-notes
---
id: "2024-11-08"
aliases: []
tags:
  - "-"
  - daily-notes
---
id: "2024-11-09"
aliases: []
tags: []
---
id: "2024-11-10"
aliases: []
tags: []
---

[[/Gratitude Journal.md|Gratitude Journal]] [[Gratitude Journal]]

[[/Gratitude Journal.md|Gratitude Journal]]

[SD-Journals](SD-Journals)

Diary

- ## Diary

- ## Using Logseq
- [[I use this tool to take notes]]
- Cancel Twitter
  [[want-to-fight-donald-trump-and-elon-musk-delete-your-x-accounts]] [[want-to-fight-donald-trump-and-elon-musk]]
- 09:10 AM [[1731163691-the-american-experiment-is-over|The American experiment is over.]]
- But I never really had that much investment in it anyway. So why the mourning?
  [[1731157817-i-swapped-my-to-do-list-for-this-method-and-my-productivity-skyrocketed|I Swapped My To-Do List for This Method, and My Productivity Skyrocketed]] [[i-swapped-my-to-do-list-for-this-method-and-my-productivity-skyrocketed]]
- # grieving

- **Shirley**'s birthday

- [[White chili]]
- Jodene Hawkins (RIP)
	- ## **[Jennifer Fountain](https://www.facebook.com/jennifer.h.fountain)
	- Life can change so quickly. 9/29 my parents came to stay with us after an ER visit on Maui, which provided mom a “presumed” pancreatic cancer diagnosis. 10/11 Fred Hutch confirmed the news. 10/30 mom passed peacefully with her husband of 59 years, Kevin, Phil and I holding her hands.  

    - #technical Removed dropbox and vmware-workstation because trying to upgrade them produced pgp error
      collapsed:: true
     - https://www.reddit.com/r/archlinux/comments/ki9hmm/how_to_properly_removeuninstall_packagesapps_with/?rdt=39525
     - https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Pacman/Package_signing#Tips_and_tricks
     - https://forum.endeavouros.com/t/cant-update-because-of-pgp-key/30517
    - **17:00**  Worked on #SD-Class.md
    - **10:01** Worked on #preaching

- ## What are the things that I have lost? [[2024-11-08-Friday]] #grief

  Insight about grieving: It combines my intensely personal feelings with a communal event:

-

  "I am a person with no country." cf. [[A man with no country]] cf [[2024-11-08]]
- # Watched movie of a father learning to love his child more than the career he had been making for himself
- Ben Afleck in _Jersey Girl_.
- ## Music

