---
id: "2024-11-10"
aliases: []
tags: []
---

[[/Gratitude Journal.md|Gratitude Journal]]

[SD-Journals](SD-Journals)

# Diary

I gave what was maybe my best sermon ever. Why would I say that?

# Insights about American Culture #american-culture

<https://youtu.be/D7cKOaBdFWo?si=0k8RVzUx-H0eS-If> The interview blog.

## Jon Stewart & Heather Cox Richardson on the social economic culture surrounding the election. She used the phrase

> We still live in the same country we lived in last week. But we have a different form of government. The government (e.g of all persons equal under the law) is now an oligarchy / authoritarian form of government.

Someone in the past few days (The Daily Show) commented on the information that a question on the citizenship test of new citizens was about "all persons equal under the law". The comment was apparently the members of the supreme court couldn't answer correctly the citizenship test.

# TheWeeklyShowWithJonStewart #TheWeeklyShow #JonStewart #ComedyCentral

00:00 - Introduction
04:06 - Heather Cox Richardson
06:00 - The candidate’s commercial selling points
07:30 - The economy, the voter’s perspective, and political technology
08:20 - The voter’s view on the system, touching on neoliberalism
11:00 - Looking back on the economic policies of Biden administration
12:50 - Voter’s rejection of Biden economic plan
15:26 - Bringing Tim Walz on board
18:14 - Comparison to Steve Bannon’s takeover of Breitbart
21:20 - Groups of voters, motives, and strategies
27:12 - Democracy in this moment
34:04 - State Governance
40:40 - Reactionary Movements
41:53 - Propaganda vs. Reality
48:09 - The world we are looking at now
49:53 - How similarly/differently do you feel to 2016 election?
51:09 - How do we stop the Democrats from learning all the wrong lessons from this loss?
55:14 - How do you want the media to cover Trump over the next four years?
59:15 - How do you find the strength to have hope for the future?
1:02:08 - Breaking Down The Episode

She did quick overview of early 20th c. social policy which was first people working in the factories and mills, trying to find out what working class folk (women) need? Kindergarten, daycare, etc. Boston and other local governments adopted it. Eventually it found its way into e.g. Roosevelt's new deal.

from Wikipedia:

## How the South Won the Civil War (2020)

In How the South Won the Civil War: Oligarchy, Democracy, and the Continuing Fight for the Soul of America (2020), Richardson argued that America was founded with contradicting ideals, with the ideas of liberty, equality, and opportunity on one hand, and slavery and hierarchy on the other. United States victory in the American Civil War should have settled that tension forever, but at the same time that the Civil War was fought, Americans also started moving into the West. In the West, Americans found, and expanded upon, deep racial hierarchies, meaning that hierarchical values survived in American politics and culture despite the crushing defeat of the pro-slavery Confederacy. Those traditions—a rejection of democracy, an embrace of entrenched wealth, the marginalization of women and people of color—have found a home in modern conservative politics, leaving the promise of America unfulfilled. Dana Elizabeth Weiner of Wilfrid Laurier University states:

With this beautifully written book, prominent US historian Heather Cox Richardson offers valuable insights to historians and general readers about the tenacity of oligarchy in American politics since the seventeenth century.[13]
