# Summary, 2024 December

journal:2024-12-01
journal:2024-w49
journal:2024-w50
journal:2024-w51
journal:2024-w52
journal:2024-12-31

journal:2024-12-04
journal:2024-12-05
journal:2024-12-06
journal:2024-12-07
journal:2024-12-08

journal:2024-12-09
journal:2024-12-10
journal:2024-12-11
journal:2024-12-12
journal:2024-12-13
journal:2024-12-14
journal:2024-12-15

- logseq
- obsidian
- joplin
- vim on repo9
- nvim on repo9
- nvim on logseq
- have got a pretty decent script working, with the "git" portion as a sub-menu. In the main menu:

journal:2024-12-16
journal:2024-12-18
journal:2024-12-19
journal:2024-12-20
journal:2024-12-21

Lessons and Carols felt so much like a "performance." I am going to stop participating in Kevin's "performance" at the end of the service.

- Daily writing
- Marie ? RIP I think the contact info is:

[range won't start](/range won't start.md)

[Spiritual Direction assignments Module 2](/Spiritual Direction assignments Module 2.md)

unplugged for 10 min.
setting time 
various permutations, then finally it worked

[[/technical.md]]

Hemmed pants. mended broken magi. ordered satin pillowcase (and jammies). [[/MP.md]]

Debbie Swartz 
P: (704) 989-1664 
janro62@aol.com 
3208 Regal Oak Drive,
Waxhaw, NC 28173

---
id: "2024-12-10"
aliases: []
tags: []
---
id: "2024-12-11"
aliases: []
tags: []
---
id: "2024-12-12"
aliases: []
tags:
  - gift
---
id: "2024-12-13"
aliases: []
tags: []
---
id: "2024-12-14"
aliases: []
tags: []
---
id: 2024_w52
aliases: []
tags: []
---
id: "2024-12-31"
aliases: []
tags: []
---

Marie DeMarest 
P: (704) 843-4287 
janro62@aol.com 
Waxhaw, NC

[Change wiki_root](/Change wiki_root.md) 

Vacuumed bedroom and sitting room. Found white plugs and did the kitchen pass through window. I couldn't figure out the long plastic filler.

[[/Gratitude Journal.md|Gratitude Journal]]

Mostly finished reinstalling Linux on Lenovo after crashing it with an experiment to see if I could get a "desktop installed". A lot of refinements in e.g. vimrc are not yet *accomplished*. 

I was latched onto this evening by Margaret (of Highland Lakes). She is life-long Catholic but has accompanied Dora Lee this past few months (years?). She wants to pass on info about services to help those with no cars. She has mostly stopped driving. She is 92, 93 soon.

Zach forgot about our appointment at Church.

Door hinges for kitchen: ordered

[[/SD-Journals.md]] 

The curtain frame and curtain came today. It looks pretty good.

The roofers are coming for their inspection of the leak in the kitchen.

Peter wanted me to give him feedback about NT Wright: *Jesus & Power* or some such

Waking from dream with thoughts of systems theory

I'm running out of days til Christmas. I am bereft of any "Christmas Spirit"

cf. note in[[/technical.md]] wiki-vim in nvim. Other issues in nvim still not straightened out, e.g. keystrokes I had utilized. Also e.g. the display of links in vim. (conceal?) I set conceallevel=2, it's working as per e.g. "accomplished" above. But it doesn't affect the links. 

- aim to keep several config files synchronized and in a github repository: 
- Using rsync: - .reminder, .vimrc 
- https://docs.rackspace.com/docs/using-rsync-to-synchronize-file#:~:text=Rsync%20stands%20for%20%22remote%20synchronization,instead%20of%20copying%20everything%20again.

Worked at getting clipboard working in Android. Just long press.

[[/pages/Health.md|Health]]

I lost all the "Clippings I had stored in the ChromeOS documents". 

Al Kunkel was talking with Ralph (debating a Maga afficianado.) Earlier apparently had done the same with Marcus. I find myself with no patience for such a thing.

Talking with Bill, he reported that Emma is in a lot of financial trouble. Owen has orchestrated some of fund for getting her a car. He reported to Bill that the last he and I had talked there was "bad blood" I don't remember such a thing. So he hasn't involved me.

I can go to mass, for the first time since September.

Then discovered again the speed of yazi. Cf. video in Logseq.

- 38 doors = 76 hinges. 10 pack @ $14, 20 pack @ $18, 50 pack @ 34, 60 pack @ $43. 80 @ $61. delivered 12/16

I am separating (or setting boundary?) by not going to Centering Prayer at Lutheran Church. It's hard and there was a difficult period where [MP](/MP.md) was (I don't know) "pouty?"

I also lost "markdown".

Order fruit basket for Bill / David

a description of what was made clear with the election was that our society has a terminal illness. Not that a horrid man was elected, but that values up and down the list were validated and accepted. The body allowed the cancer to take over. It will be terminal.

Todo :todo: #todo 

Room partition

- [ ] Call Owen: call back later this evening
- [ ] Mail Owen package
- [ ] Tell Owen re. Cecil Alexander [[/Owen Christmas letter.md|Owen Christmas letter]]
- [ ] Scavenger hunt Miriam / Owen
- [ ] Lydia: $200 plus flowers for birthday
- [ ] Julian: $200
- [x] Hem [MP](/MP.md) pants
- [x] report to Peter about Wright's *Jesus and the Powers*

Ordered curtains and rod for front room.

"This is a hug from your grandparents" in a card for Miriam to include with kids' "sleep pod" from HUGSLEEP, INC.

Installed gcalcli for access to Google calendar from terminal. I'm writing this from tmux screen with 4 open terminals.

Remind stuff:
- put a "%" at end of every reminder to keep output from double spacing <https://blog.thechases.com/posts/remind/>
- see "checkvist" notes for include for other file

- [partition frame](https://www.amazon.com/SUNALLY-Separation-28-114inch-Adjustable-Freestanding/dp/B0DFH8C526?crid=2EB8FWKB1RNVQ&dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.Anh51fteUjQ1dFobaZNcqg-w_sz5PIeH3SYtE_h3KCJ0MRX5gPF2DaVMrSgKJB37l60QVcO9phOGg-5pREIJpA80d6p83TQouUfmKmiiHgTn6h-8FO_qQyyl9rVI3DcwcMzAVWwVJcp5lBtsXMQ3soAtX5b8Lqc9kmxdnkN98bREOl671m3hAgOGNY54SPnPKou9xqOW5B24sjh8a98mGncBsajA7jfYGcBZVhdEWnizu-7gaPztHcpkF77-cZ5rZAJC2kZQq3UQdlhpM6NyJdxZpgXlat9RBBjI9acKJIo.3cXjEOmFaZLJTKUKaXo5LYAZyCLxExXWI479IJrghRk&dib_tag=se&keywords=room%2Bpartitions%2Band%2Bdividers&qid=1733834222&sprefix=room%2Bparti%2Caps%2C131&sr=8-10&th=1)

Next week we have to go to Dunedin for gym.

- created project "My Project 29311"

- <https://github.com/insanum/gcalcli/blob/HEAD/docs/api-auth.md>
  <https://github.com/insanum/gcalcli/blob/HEAD/docs/api-auth.md>
- Didn't get the easy stuff to work. But eventually I got an awk or gawk command to work (cf. checkvist) getting me a workable csv. In Gdrive Sheets I massaged it into an amazing list, going back to 2008. <https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/10IrDsUa-xgwvFN4-fgtcVzq7jz_0HHtwcMQPQOqY97c/edit?usp=sharing>

[[/Christmas Cards 24.md|Christmas Cards 24]]

[[/Christmas gifts 24.md|Christmas gifts 24]]

Mary Pat wants me to call to get a professional to design us a patio -- to be sent to architectural review committee.

[[soul-of-america|Soul-of-america]] forum

https://meganesulli.com/blog/sync-obsidian-vault-iphone-ipad/

Atomic note-taking

Proton to replace Google ecosystem

