# 2024-07-27
Created: 2024-07-27 07:43

* [Sat 2024-07-27 08:35:42-0400](#sat-2024-07-27-08:35:42-0400)
* [Technical](#technical)
* [Letter to Patrick](#letter-to-patrick)
* [write to Bo to pull out of Treeology :done:](#write-to-bo-to-pull-out-of-treeology-:done:)
# Gratitude Journal 

- [MP](/MP.md) got into bed by herself at 7am this morning, as I watched looking over her.
- I was writing a note to Patrick Judge in my sleep. :dream:
- There is a tremendous burden with re. the Treeology guy, recommended by Mike. He is uneducated, teeth missing, speaks with an accent that makes it difficult to understand, he is MAGA, and he jokes in inappropriate ways that feels aggressive. I wish I could just have him disappear, but he knows trees and he would give us the most value. This piece that I react against is a blessing that I can't yet discern.

# Diary 

## Sat 2024-07-27 08:35:42-0400
- Reviewing the paperwork from Treeology with MP. She is very negative about the paperwork. It's obviously not itemized. She reminded that one of the concerns we had when doing the windows was the difference between a 1 page summary proposal vs. a detailed itemized one. 
- There are problems with the proposal, most notably that he apparently doesn't include the laurel oak in the front. It is also very scary to think that we are responsible for everything that might be damaged. 
- She suggests getting more evaluations from recommendations from Marty or Al Kunkel.
- MP was expecting maybe a couple thousand dollars, and is anxious about our large upcoming bills due.
## Technical

[markdown-keystrokes](/markdown-keystrokes.md)

## Letter to Patrick

We heard the devastating news about your marriage from your mother. Given that we don't have a ton of shared time together, I was surprised at how emotional I was, re-feeling for myself some of the breathless, cavernous emptiness I have felt in the past. When I shared my anticipated divorce with my bishop, seeking him out with trepidation, he proceeded to excuse himself to take a sales call about new signs for his office. It seemed at the time that no one was able to hear my pain. I don't presume to know your agony. I found it comforting to see that some people compared it to literally going crazy. Perhaps it can be some assurance that there are many around you who care for and love you. I count myself as one, though admittedly at some distance. We live in times when great distances are bridged with relative ease. 

Shalom,

## write to Bo to pull out of Treeology :done:

Bo at Treeology. You clearly know more about trees than anyone I have ever met. You have helped me to see clearly that our large oak tree needs to come down. However, my wife and I have concluded that we are unable to do this project at this time. I appreciate that you have wanted this job and put in some planning. There may be a time in the future when you could help us and I will contact you then. 

Sincerely,

