---
id: "2024-10-24"
aliases: []
tags:
  - daily-notes
---

[[/Gratitude Journal.md|Gratitude Journal]]

[SD-Journals](SD-Journals)

Diary

-

## Opening of [[1729776317-spirituality-summit|Spirituality Summit]] [[2024-10-24-Thursday]] 9:00 EST

### **Living with an Open Heart: A Sufi Approach to Suffering with Omid Safi**

How do we respond to a world full of suffering and injustice while staying connected to love? Join Sufi scholar Omid Safi to explore the deep spiritual call to share in our common humanity and confront the pain and polarization around us. Omid challenges us to examine our biases—who do we believe is sacred?—and to recognize the interconnectedness of all life. We’ll discuss the role of sacred rage, the balance between contemplation and action, and how prayer alone is not enough. Omid also offers profound insights on personal suffering, showing us how witnessing, silence, and gentleness can transform our pain into deeper love. Whether you’re on the frontlines of justice or navigating your own trials, this conversation will inspire you to engage the world with both heart and courage.

- Lives in American South. White man, younger than he, calls him "boy". Accompanied with assumptions.
- Islam: "Paradise is a **walled garden**"
- "Rage" can be warranted. Some things: "If you're not angry about it you're not really alive."
- Not just "thoughts and prayers" with no action is nothing.
- Prophet teaches: "How do you help the oppressor?" Answ: "You stop him."

### Cynthia Winton-Henry _Contemplative Embodiment: Coming Home to Body and Soul_

Contemplative Embodiment: Coming Home to Body and Soul
with Cynthia Winton-Henry

Join us for a gentle and nourishing body practice that invites you to reconnect with your whole self. Through Cynthia's guidance, you’ll explore organic movement, voice, words, and the stillness in ourselves, others, and the world. With easy focus and gentle releasing, we’ll attend to the physicality of grace and build on it as we dance on behalf of one another and the world.

ABOUT CYNTHIA

Cynthia Winton–Henry, M.Div, is a contemplative theologian, spiritual director, artist, and author of four books, including Dance, The Sacred Art: The Joy of Movement as a Spiritual Practice.

She cofounded InterPlay, an international creative practice and leadership program that helps people build community and unlock the wisdom of the body. She writes, teaches, speaks, and offers spiritual coaching through Hidden Monastery Online Dance Chapels and Art of Ensoulment Courses. A life-long advocate of sacred dance, she writes at The Dancing Center on Substack. Her books include Art of Ensoulment: A Playbook on How to Create from Body and Soul, What the Body Wants, Chasing the Dance of Life, Dance: A Sacred Art: Discovering the Joy of Movement as Spiritual Practice. Find her at Cynthia-Winton-Henry.com.

> She reminds me physically and sensitively of Mary Shiflet. Maybe Mary if she hadn't devoted her life to her husband.
