# 2024-08-26
Created: 2024-08-26 07:17

# Gratitude Journal 

Good sleep. Too many things coming up, but my preaching is behind me for a while. Reading. In particular a novel. I guess good for me. But also I have a rhythm I like with taking notes in this folder, using Obsidian or Vim.

# Diary 

## Call from Patel's office: :medical:  [medical](/medical.md) 
Three questions they responded to:
1. keep taking the aspirin until the nuclear stress test. The results of that will help determine whether to stop taking the aspirin.
2. If I used the mail order option with my insurance I could get the cost down to $60 per 90 days.
3. When I asked, "Should all patients diagnosed with Afib go on these drugs?" I didn't really get an answer. The initial response was that afib is unpredictable, and that one can go for a long time without an episode. The nurse described the general class of drugs that have the result of reducing the risk of clotting.

- cumiden (Warfarin)
- Xarelto
- Eliquis
- (a third)

Of these, the cumiden requires monthly blood work. The other 3 do not. They tend to prescribe the other 3 on the basis of what the insurance company covers. 
4. They generally give permission in cases like my colonoscopy for pausing the drug for up to a week. … with associated risk warning. The nurse wouldn't respond to my thought that I ought not start the drug until after the time I would be required to pause it. 

## Call to Kalani.
They have available 2:30 on Wednesday. Talking with his Nurse. Laura? = PA. They have requested medical records from Patel.

Bring all medications. Insurance. 

Patel said that "monitoring" after a stent is only 1) catheterization or 2) nuclear stress test. Are there other options?

## email from Linda re. Spiritual Direction course

Clergy Acceleration [Spiritual Direction Training](/Spiritual Direction Training.md)Program, class of 2025 
[Spiritual Direction Training](Spiritual%20Direction%20Training.md) from Obsidian [[Spiritual Direction Training]] 
