# Summary, 2024 week 46

journal:2024-11-11
journal:2024-11-12
journal:2024-11-13
journal:2024-11-14
journal:2024-11-15
journal:2024-11-16
journal:2024-11-17

- # Daily writing

[[/Gratitude Journal.md|Gratitude Journal]]

- Reviewing fonts installation on Chromebook [put them in ".local/share/font(s)"], I see that there is a web app by the author called "font inspector"
- <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H4QiP1ibxtQ>
- <https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/google-font-previewer-for/engndlnldodigdjamndkplafgmkkencc>
- in nvim: keystroke: "go to heading" => g+j, g+k
- in vim: "[[" or "]]"
- move lines (in insert, in nvim) => map("i", "<A-j>", "<esc><cmd>m .+1<cr>==gi", { desc = "Move Down" }) map("i", "<A-k>", "<esc><cmd>m .-2<cr>==gi", { desc = "Move Up" })
- Lesson on how to adjust the naming/filing/note creation process: <https://mcanueste.com/posts/obsidian-nvim-customizations-for-capture-notes/>
- download nvim for debian: https://mansoorbarri.com/neovim-debian/

[Gratitude Journal](/Gratitude Journal.md)

- ## Daily writing

He reports that "the group" (the world group) has been concerned about her [[/MP.md]] because she has been incommuniado all week.

  [[/Gratitude Journal.md|Gratitude Journal]]

[SD-Journals](SD-Journals)

Bill's approach to post-election was to:

  [[/Gratitude Journal.md|Gratitude Journal]] [[Gratitude Journal]]
  [SD-Journals](SD-Journals)

  [SD-Journals](SD-Journals)
- # Diary
- ## [[2024-11-14-Thursday]] [[SD Class Nov 14]]

- ## Diary

1. Not let Trump get their "goat" which is clearly his goal
2. It may not be as bad as people's expectations. Rachel Maddow: look at what happened his first term. Perhaps people will not follow with his radical moves.

- ### [[2024-11-11-Monday]]

[[Prep verbatim]]
[[People who’ve accepted that life isn’t fair do these 8 things differently - Personal Branding Blog]]
cf. Martin Shaw: I can resonate with his message today that it is a matter of choosing who you will serve.

Even when the powers of the mightiest empire are put in the Church’s hands, they do not enable her to save the State from destruction, for, in abandoning the position which her very name implies, of being “called out” of the world, and of separation to Christ, she loses the power that comes from subjection to her Lord, exchanging it for an earthly authority that is fatal to herself…. as the churches increased, the first zeal flagged and conformity to the world and its ways increased…

E.H. Broadbent, The Pilgrim Church, 1931

Oh Rose, thou art sick.

William Blake

Wow, fatal to herself.

I can’t be serving two Guvnors. Christians can’t be serving two Guvnors. I saw something big in that grain-of-sand that was the moment at the Cathedral gates.

But let’s not just be slagging the lad with the card machine. Let’s think some small, personal thoughts and work out from there. ...

