---
id: 2024_w52
aliases: []
tags: []
---

# Summary, 2024 week 52

journal:2024-12-23
journal:2024-12-24
journal:2024-12-25
journal:2024-12-26
journal:2024-12-27

---
id: "2024-12-25"
aliases: []
tags: []
---
id: "2024-12-26"
aliases: []
tags: []
---
id: "2024-12-27"
aliases: []
tags: []
---

Called Kalani about feeling the pounding yesterday in my heart.
- By all means don't return to Sotalol. If I were to do that I would need to have a pacemaker installed. In the meantime, monitor the episodes. Try to capture with EKG device. If need be schedule an early follow-up.

Pivim.cmd.wiki_root='/home/dale/Repositories/wiki-vim'ck up Amy / Patch. Use non-highway route.

She responded, "Open presents." I was thinking more about the rest of the hours. A feast. Football games on TV. Play games? 

Gym followed by Domoishi with kids.

Mary Pat registered in 1 ½ minutes positive for Covid.

I got the wiki-vim plugin with variables by putting them in the "config" folder. Yay.

in short order Amy registered faint 2nd line. Both couples decided to leave.

The kids went to the beach in Tarpon Springs. 

- [!] I heard from all my kids except Emma.  Go to the beach?

[[/Notes at Christmas.md|Notes at Christmas]]

- [!] [MP](/MP.md) came down with "crud" like [Amy](/Amy.md)'s.

27 Dec 2024 Fri 11:44 AM They're gone.

 So easily the house feels so empty.

- [x] Order flowers for Lydia.

- [ ] File to security: https://www.1800flowers.com/checkout/order-confirmation/5929665462
dhath12
dch2Flowers!

Shirley sent me an unbelievable trove of photos from Suzanne. Stored in Pcloud: https://u.pcloud.link/publink/show?code=kZOr355ZUTavOXIv7A7f1LKJM7nycjNOnKRy

:movie: "6 Triple 8" about the only black woman's unit sent to Europe in WWII. Good story. Surveying the tension within black soldiers serving their country even as their country turns on them.

