
https://www.cnn.com/wbd/how-to-clean-your-house-in-45-minutes-or-less/index.html

Mp text 
I dreamt of Donald Trump the other night. I stood in the streets of a city. He suddenly ran up to me and ordered me to stand on a number that was painted on the concrete beneath me. I remained standing there, only because I was puzzled by his odd demand and unexpected presence before me. So, I simply watched, while he sprinted off and climbed into a tall tower.

  

I scanned the streets before me, and saw that many of us stood there, each upon our own designated number. Trump blasted out an order, and suddenly, water hoses and mace assaulted us with full blast! Everyone just stood there, taking it. Not me! I said, “Hell no!” and ran for the hills.

  

High fences surrounded us, so I climbed like a madwoman, with only two or three others having the courage to climb with me. As soon as I reached the top, warriors that I never met before grabbed me to help me over. They shielded me as we broke through the barrier, and then took me to a place that was safe and secure.

  

Then, they broke it all down to me – the government conspiracies, the matrix that is everything, and the great illusion. They spoke of the “Great Revolution” that was beginning and told me that I would now be taken under the protection of their underground organization. The Great Shift had begun!

  

This dream showed me that many of us are, and will be targeted, and that when that time comes, not to be amongst the many who just stand there and take it, frozen in disbelief and fear! To save myself, I had to run, and believe in my ability to escape the chaos and confusion. They showed me that those of us who have the courage to escape, or to say no, will be helped, and will be brought to a new environment, free of the oppressor’s chaos and insanity! 

  

Excerpt from my book, Thunderbird Rising, a memoir of Reconnection, Resilience, & Empowerment, Chapter 13. Published in 2021 & 2nd edition 2023.