# Questions
---
title: "‘What have we here?’: how asking yourself a simple question can transform the way you think about your life"
source: "https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2025/jan/04/asking-yourself-a-simple-question-can-transform-the-way-you-think-about-your-life-oliver-burkeman"
author:
  - "[[Oliver Burkeman]]"
published: 2025-01-04
created: 2025-01-04
description: "Forget generic self-help advice and focus instead on the unique set of hang-ups, character traits and personal circumstances that stop you living your best life"
tags:
  - "clippings"
---
One problem with trying to improve your life is that, all too often, the improvements you’re attempting have little to do with *your* life. That’s especially obvious when, say, you seek to emulate the extreme fitness routine of a high-profile influencer, overlooking the fact that he or she has a team of assistants to free up all the time it requires. But following the advice of the average self-help book is unlikely to work much better: no matter how wise or sincere its author, it’s vanishingly unlikely they’ve ever met you. Even when a plan for change seems to arise independently, from inside your own mind, it usually takes the form of a fantasy about the person you think you ought to be, or would like to be, into which you then try to squeeze the person you actually are – for a few days, anyway, until the struggle becomes so frustrating that you give up in despair.

This is where [the questions in this series](https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/series/questions-for-a-better-life-a-self-improvement-special) come into their own. They’re asked by people with expertise in the fields of relationships, career, health, home organisation and more. But they can be answered only by the person who possesses by far the most detailed understanding of what might genuinely make a difference in your life, which is you.

The notion that questions might be more powerful tools for self-transformation than off-the-shelf advice implies a specific view of human psychology: that most of the time, somewhere deep down, we already know what we want or need. Maybe that’s why books and articles that merely rattle through the ingredients of a happy life – close relationships, time spent in nature, plenty of physical movement, etc – so frequently seem to fall flat. Nobody really needs telling that these things matter. The issue is how to address the unique set of hang-ups, character traits and personal circumstances that always seem to stop you putting them into practice. And the trouble is that the answers usually lie outside consciousness: the conscious part of the mind, as the Jungian therapist and writer James Hollis puts it, “is at best a thin wafer floating on an iridescent sea”. But the right question can dredge that wisdom up to the surface. Your answers to the questions that follow might surprise you; perhaps you’ll conclude that you *don’t* need to reduce the clutter at home, or that your marriage is healthier than you’d realised. The fact that it’s even possible to surprise yourself like this proves the point: there’s some wisdom you know, but that you don’t necessarily know that you know.

Sometimes, a good question works by conjuring a parallel universe, permitting you temporarily to change the rules by which you engage with reality. This is the value of classic self-help prompts such as, “What would you do if money were no object?” or, “What would you do if you weren’t afraid?” The point isn’t that money won’t ever not be an object, or that you’ll succeed in abolishing all fear. It’s that by setting these buzzing anxieties aside for a moment, you get to hear other parts of yourself. If you discover that in the absence of financial worries you’d write songs all day, that’s critical data – not because you should give up the day job (that could be the case, though it probably isn’t) but because if you can find even 20 minutes a day for songwriting, you’ll be amazed at how much more enriching life becomes.

A related sort of question helps us bypass the misleading or superficial factors on which we tend to focus when deciding how to spend our time. Confronted by a significant life choice, I’ve long relied on a question Hollis recommends: is the path I’m on, or the path I’m proposing to take, one that enlarges or diminishes me? It’s frequently impossible to say which of two options is the “best” or “right” one, or even which is more likely to lead to happiness. But it’s often surprisingly easy to know, on an intuitive level, which is the path of “enlargement” or psychological growth. For different people, or at different stages of life, the very same external action – moving to another city, say, or beginning to look for a new job – could be an act of courage (which is enlarging) or an act of avoidance (which is diminishing). Hollis’s question can help you determine which is true for you.

Ultimately, the purpose of any good question like this is to redirect your attention away from escapist fantasies and back to the reality before you – which is the only place, after all, where real change could ever actually occur. I love the Zen Buddhist and chef Edward Espé Brown’s favourite question for prompting deeper engagement with the world: “What have we here?” This embodies the attitude of the person opening the kitchen cupboard at 6pm on a weekday, to see what they might rustle up for dinner. But it’s an attitude worth taking to pretty much all of life. Suppose you’d like to exercise more in 2025. All right: what have we here? A daily school run; a packed work schedule; perhaps a longstanding and seemingly intractable difficulty in getting up early. So maybe four 90-minute trips to the gym aren’t the place to begin. What about a brisk walk, dailyish? It’s tempting to dismiss this as taking the easy option, but it isn’t. Frittering your time away on daydreams of the perfect workout routine is the easy option. Facing the reality you’re in, and asking what you could start doing today, is the bold and empowering one.

[skip past newsletter promotion](https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2025/jan/04/#EmailSignup-skip-link-7)

after newsletter promotion

Something similar is true, incidentally, when it comes to the longing many of us feel to do more about the multiple crises engulfing the world. Doom-scrolling through global climate data or news of international conflicts might *feel* like doing something, superficially, but we all know it doesn’t count. Instead, look at your reality, which extends far beyond your phone. What have we here? A local group that could use your volunteering, possibly; a sum of money you could afford to donate; a flair for graphic design, or organising events, or anything else that might be the beginning of something real.

In other words, the right question meets you where you are – which includes not just your external surroundings but your internal moods and emotions, too. Conventional approaches to self-change often involve attempting to suppress what you’re feeling, so as to stick at all costs to a plan. But how’s that working out for you so far? In her essay Learning to Work, the linguist and feminist scholar Virginia Valian describes being unable to make progress on her PhD thesis, thanks to paralysing anxiety, until she began asking herself how much time she’d truly be *willing* to give it each day. Three hours? “The very thought gave me an anxiety attack.” Two hours? One? Still impossible. Moving ever downwards, she eventually reached her point of willingness: 15 minutes. “A nice solid amount of time, an amount of time I knew I could live through every day.” People laughed at how little it was, but all that mattered was that it worked, and that later she could gradually increase it: she was up and running again. Frankly, even a single minute a day of actual work, never mind 15, would have counted for more than all the hypothetical hours she might have told herself she ought to be working.

And the questions need never stop. In a famous 1903 letter, the Austrian poet Rainer Maria Rilke urges a protege of his to “be patient toward all that is unsolved in your heart and to try to *love the questions themselves* like locked rooms and like books that are written in a very foreign tongue … The point is, to live everything. *Live* the questions now. Perhaps you will then gradually, without noticing it, live along some distant day into the answer.” His words capture the sense that asking questions is a way of living, complete in itself – not merely a preliminary step before you finally get life figured out. History records no instance of anyone ever getting life finally figured out, so it’s probably best not to stake your happiness on achieving that yourself. All you need is the next question, then the next, and the next …

*Meditations for Mortals: Four Weeks to Embrace Your Limitations and Make Time for What Counts* *by Oliver Burkeman is published by* *Bodley Head**. To support the Guardian and Observer, order your copy at* *[guardianbookshop.com](https://www.guardianbookshop.com/meditations-for-mortals-9781847927613/?utm_source=editoriallink&amp;utm_medium=merch&amp;utm_campaign=article)**. Delivery charges may apply.*
https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2025/jan/04/questions-to-ask-yourself-for-a-more-meaningful-life

# questions
https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2025/jan/04/questions-to-ask-yourself-for-a-more-meaningful-life

---
title: "Questions to ask yourself … for a more meaningful life"
source: "https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2025/jan/04/questions-to-ask-yourself-for-a-more-meaningful-life"
author:
  - "[[Laura Potter]]"
  - "[[Susie Orbach]]"
published: 2025-01-04
created: 2025-01-04
description: "Psychotherapist, psychoanalyst and author Susie Orbach on how to make a life full of substance and sustenance"
tags:
  - "clippings"
---
## **Why do I feel I need to be ‘happy’?**

We constantly absorb the idea that we need to be happier, but do we? The word “why” allows us to shift our perspective and think more broadly about why a “happier life” is the imagined goal, rather than a life that has more complexity, meaning and authenticity. In our consumer culture, it’s as though happiness is something we can buy, rather than contentment and interest, which we experience. This focus on happiness can negate what’s going on, how we feel, how many varied things we might be experiencing. That doesn’t make for a very sustainable or interesting life.  

## **What am I longing for?**

Shift the lens from what you’re striving for to what you’re drawn to, what you want to put your energy into. Perhaps you’ve been stuck at home with the kids and haven’t seen your friends, so there’s a longing to start seeing them again. Longing can have a bite to it, because it can be painful to long for something and not be able to reach it, but longing also cues us into what we want; we might not always be able to get there but we may find a route to our deeper needs.

## **Am I caught up in any patterns?**

Nobody can go through life without regret, but developing an empathic relationship to it allows us to mourn and reflect on how we were and what we were capable of under the circumstances – for example, if you stayed in a relationship for too long, you may understand that you felt too insecure to leave it, or that you needed to look after that person. Those are sympathetic ways of being reflective on your experience, and the capacity to reflect allows you to catch yourself enacting the same patterns.

## **When does connection nourish me?**

It may be when you have a wonderful conversation, or when you’re at a concert and feel part of the whole thing. I get tremendous delight working on things with other people; for others it could be playing an instrument, painting, walking, banging nails into a wall and getting it right – it doesn’t matter what it is. It could also encompass cultural practices; reading a book or watching a movie that really speaks to you is a way of feeling touched.

## **What am I doing that’s about contribution?**

I was brought up at a time when we thought the point of society was to contribute, and I still value that psychologically. Finding ways of extending one’s capacities to give – whether within our community, artistically or emotionally – expands who we are, whether we’re a mathematician who is making a contribution to understanding, or drawn to the arts or medicine. If we look at the number of cookery pages in magazines, that’s about creating something, nourishing people you love while also giving you something in the process of transformation.

## **How am I stuck, and what perspective do I need to unstick myself?**

This is about increasing our emotional repertoire. The therapist in me would ask: how does it help you to be stuck in this way, and can you highlight any apparent *advantages* of holding this position, however difficult that may be? For example, does it allow you not to do certain things, or keep you safe in your perception? That reflection can open you up to thinking: maybe I don’t need to do this any more.

## **What things give me ordinary pleasure?**

While some of us are lucky enough to find meaning in our work, some are stoical about it but do other things – go to a chess club, or make furniture, or sing in a choir. Being able to have spaces for things outside of work and family are important. It could be playing cards on a Monday night, going for a walk, preparing a meal or having a giggle with your kid. It’s something nourishing – that’s the key.

[skip past newsletter promotion](https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2025/jan/04/#EmailSignup-skip-link-14)

after newsletter promotion

## **Do I feel heard?**

We want people to hear us, whether it’s our delight or our sorrows. When those things aren’t heard, you get rage, alienation, depression – or Trump coming to power. Being heard, or recognised, is very important but it doesn’t need to be by having loads of likes on social media. We have to take a risk internally, in telling a friend or partner something that feels important about us. In response to the question, “How are you today?” you might say, “Things are a bit difficult.” The other person doesn’t have to fix it for you; they just have to acknowledge it.

## **Could I look at difficulties from another perspective?**

The thing about a difficulty is we tend to approach it in the same manner, rather than picking it up, turning it around and looking at it from different angles. Sitting with a difficulty is important because if you don’t react immediately, you might find more texture or colour within it. Reflect on whether this is a known difficulty, a familiar pattern or a new circumstance. Knowing how painful, enraging, sad or regretful something is expands your capacity to do something about it. Sometimes you can’t act – you may just have to settle with that difficulty, but you may be able to allow it to sit inside of you differently.

## **What are the things about myself that I don’t like?**

Manifestly, there must be things you dislike about yourself. You might be too controlling or judgmental, say, and there is something useful in acknowledging that, so you don’t become stuck in it – recognising a trait and saying, “I don’t want to do that again.”

## **What will allow me to move on?**

Sometimes explanations for our perceived problems are empowering, but sometimes they keep us stuck, so the question is, “What’s going to allow me to shift this?” If you blame your husband’s laziness, say, for your unhappiness, you could talk to your husband, or think: how does it serve me to feel I’m so on top of everything all the time? What can I do to not offload everything I find unsatisfactory on to other people, when I may be partly responsible myself?

## **Am I noticing simple acts of generosity?**

You might have a nice hello with the usually grumpy greengrocer. It’s good to notice any ordinary act of generosity and connection; it isn’t costly or complex, but makes you feel like you belong in the world.

*Susie Orbach is founder of the Women’s Therapy Centre* *and author of multiple books including [In Therapy: The Unfolding Story](https://guardianbookshop.com/in-therapy-9781781259887/).*
# Notes

[[Book of occasional services]]