---
id: "2025-02-04"
aliases: []
tags: []
---

# [[/Install apk on Chromebook without developer mode.md|Install apk on Chromebook without developer mode]]

[[/technical.md]] :technical: #technical in order to get "Markdownr" on the new Acer. It allows access to more web pages.

[[/pages/Church  Sarah reading 02-02-25.md]]

for maestral I made symbolic link to the binary I had created in an earlier post: 

"ln -s /home/dale/.local/pipx/venvs/maestral/bin/maestral maestral" :technical: 

Linda's referral contacted me: [SD](/spiritual-direction/SD.md) 

- [~] I need to respond. :todo: 

Dear Jim, I would be available next week on Monday for most of the day or Wednesday other than the lunch period. What is your availability? Your work schedule? 

Peter reached out to his clergy community for council. [[Church]]

- [~] I need to respond. 

Peter, I am so grateful for your email. It demonstrates your commitment to the people of your "charge" as well as your devotion to the one you've given your life to. First of all, I am willing and committed to being a part of a council of advice. I will meet via Zoom in order to facilitate all our schedules. I want to say up front that in my active ministry I found a weekly time of meeting with fellow clergy and leaders was vital to any effective ministry I may have facilitated. I was invited to such an ecumenical group in the early years in a local ministry group in a small town. I instigated such a group in both Michigan City and Honolulu when I arrived there. In Honolulu I was one of the driving forces behind pursuing such a "council of advice and prayer" through at least 3 different permutations. In retirement I was one of the driving forces behind reviving such a group of Episcopal clergy. I am in favor of what you are asking for. The other piece I throw out at the outset is that I disagree that such time should be consider "off the clock." I think that Spiritual Direction and such time of council and collegial community is a vital part of your calling, of your ministry, and of your professional accountability. That's where I come from. I think of what a very close Jesuit friend said to me at Notre Dame, that his community expected of him a day of sabbath each week; a week of each month, and a month of each year. I am supportive of such an expansive view of the work we are called to do. 
