---
id: "2025-02-08"
aliases: []
tags: []
---

Met with Karen. Cf. notes in Joplin

ordered bread slicer + heating pad :diy: [[diy]]

Made bread

contacted Piikea re. Visiting.

- [ ] Tried to resurrect Emelia's web page using Jekyll. There were updates unavailable and I was unable to get it to work.

Looked into MkDocs for posting documentation. cf. https://www.mkdocs.org/getting-started/ . This is really the kind of thing I think I was trying to reproduce.  This seems really promising.

Peter's email re. truth-telling :the-resistance: #the-resistance [[writing]]

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RP4JJB1kWqo

@PeterJVogel
1 day ago (edited)
Brilliant!  Great idea!  Bringing in truth from all disciplines.  This reminds me of Peck's quote from 'The Road Less Traveled': "Mental health is an ongoing process of dedication to reality at all costs.” 

email to Peter, summarizing certain aspects of the day: :preaching: [[preaching]]

> Peter,I was very taken by this video -- at least in part because it intersected with some things I was thinking about earlier in the day; viz. the power in cultivating a language of "truth-telling" in the midst of a culture of lies. This isn't exactly "speaking truth to power" which for me has become something of a slogan and so not that helpful. But if we conceive of every time we push back against the lies we are fed with the truth (which is not anybody's truth, but "truth") we are taking a stand for life and goodness in a society that is clearly not valuing either of those things. How to take seriously that the culture built on lying has taken power in our society? And I think it's not just political power. It's much more pervasive than that. Advertising, which in many ways drives our society, is in many ways built on camouflaging the truth and speaking whatever will persuade the audience to transfer money to some source. "Mispoke" has became a legitimate synonym for "lie" and ends up meaning something entirely different. (I first witnessed that shift in Richard Nixon admitting to the country that he had "mispoke", and that seemed to dissipated the whole controversy -- whatever it was. Instead, it had the effect of the society giving tacit approval to our leaders not telling truth -- i.e. lying. I find myself looking at various sources of information that until 2 weeks ago had some kind of authority as today being the source of wickedness, violence, assault, absurdity. There are at least some folks in our midst who are not content to go forward as if everything is normal. Our world has shifted in the past few weeks. I don't perceive it as easy to know how to speak, how to respond to particular events, or to know which events to respond to .  A clue for me is how I formerly responded to people who were blatantly racist in their language in my presence. Did I respond? Did I object? Did I try to fade into the woodwork? Did I walk away? We are now being confronted by words and actions emanating from the powers that be that can only be described as abominable. How do we respond? Perhaps this blog helps in our discerning how to respond.
Faithfully,
Dale

To see a World in a Grain of SandAnd a Heaven in a Wild Flower Hold Infinity in the palm of your hand And Eternity in an hour (Blake)
