# 2024-07-13
Created: 2024-07-13 06:50

2024-07-13: A new blog post

# Gratitude Journal 
- I didn't wake to pee until 6:30 last night.
- For this journal system with **Vim**.
- The bonded connections and community that MP knows in St. Alfred's -- in evidence last night at the movie night at church
- "Welcome, welcome, my irritation at spending so much of my time supporting MP. "God is working on me." What is my irritation telling me? My need for autonomy. For self-focused time. My need for self-care. Let go. Pay attention.
- Volunteer at hospital with babies? Homeless? Remember the infants in the pool and one of them had her **Grandpa** to learn to swim with.
# Diary 
- Trump has been shot at. Inches away from being a JFK. This is his Beer Hall Putsch. :trump: :[politics](/politics.md): [trump](/trump.md)

When Weimar Germany was plunged into chaos in early 1923 and hyperinflation was out of control, a revolution seemed inevitable, but nobody knew from where and how. In Bavaria, Von Kahr was cracking down on Adolf Hitler's National Socialist German Workers Party and he was being backed into a corner. Adolf could either make a daring bid for power in Bavaria, and then seek to take over the entire nation, or he could watch his political career wither and die under the restrictions from the Bavarian Government. He took the gamble and in November 1923, the Beer Hall Putsch took place, which would change Adolf Hitler's life forever, as well as everyone else involved, if they survived. Let's find out what happened, and what went wrong. [(12) The Beer Hall Putsch - Hitler's Failed Revolution (1923) - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vHSeuNUPn8I "(12) The Beer Hall Putsch - Hitler's Failed Revolution (1923) - YouTube")


