---
title: Proper-16b-sermon-draft
date: 2024-08-02
tags: 
---
# Proper-16b-sermon-draft
## Sketches 
- Temple in Jerusalem
- The ark and its significance. E.g. "ark" in today's synagogue.
- n.b. that Solomon prays for God to dwell in the temple, but at the same time recognizes that even heaven and earth cannot contain God.
- "Take up the whole armor of God …"
- Pray in the Spirit at all times …"
> Pray also for me, so that when I speak, a message may be given to me to make known with boldness the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in chains. 
- … those who eat my flesh and drink my blood abide in me. 
- This teaching is difficult …
- Peter: we believe
- "conclusion of *Bread of life* sermon
- This is not just an old old story. It's also very present. People are still dying over that particular piece of real estate.
## from Lancaster sermon
- Holy Places (from 2021)
- Bp. Gray's story about returning to St. Paul's
- "Pilgrim People"
- Reading from Gregory Dix re. Eucharist
## Outline

### The ark
A curiosity I never thought about until I tried to teach students about the sacred and the holy.

- set apart from the ordinary -- but made up of ordinary stuff
- partly controllable and partly not

It is the ark that begins the readings today. The "house" of God. We think, "How quaint." 

Last week we heard how Solomon succeeded his father David and received the gift of wisdom. We don't hear about the building of the "house" of God. 

- He cut down the forests of cedars of Lebanon -- an ecological disaster that is still felt up to the present day.
- He enlisted an army -- 30,000 the text says -- of slaves to build it.  "Solomon also had 70,000 common laborers, 80,000 quarry workers in the hill country, 16 and 3,600 foremen to supervise the work. 17 At the king’s command, they quarried large blocks of high-quality stone and shaped them to make the foundation of the Temple."

But as we listen today we hear that even with all of this grand construction, there is recognition that "God cannot be contained".

### The Sacred

- The beauty of this place, the money invested, the upkeep
- "Show me a man's checkbook and I'll show you where his heart is."
- Desire to set aside a place in my home -- only partly works.
- Jan. 6, 2020 seemed like something holy had been desecrated. **Reactivity** is a way to recognize when someone crosses someone else's sacred boundary.
- One of the best things asked of me, many years ago, "Is that a ditch you want to die in?"
- What is worth fighting for? It varies from person to person. 
- But there is a consistency about somethings, e.g. **The Temple Mount** -- for 3,000 years it's a place people were prepared to fight and die for.
- Story of *Koko Crater*
- cemeteries -- why not similar for births?
- Sacred cup of coffee
## Sacred Bread
- making bread
- the ordinariness of it
- No one celebrates the sacred **absence**
- *ark*, (“holy ark”), in Jewish synagogues, an ornate cabinet that enshrines the sacred Torah scrolls used for public worship. Because it symbolizes the Holy of Holies of the ancient Temple of Jerusalem, it is the holiest place in the synagogue and the focal point of prayer. The ark is reached by steps and is commonly placed so that the worshiper facing it also “faces Jerusalem.” When the scrolls are removed for religious services, the congregation stands, and a solemn ceremony accompanies the opening and closing of the ark doors.  - [Britannica](https://www.britannica.com/topic/ark-Judaism "Ark | Torah, Covenant, Tabernacle | Britannica")
## Song: Sacrifice of praise

> From *Common Prayer*

There is an old saying many Christians use: “Offer the Lord a sacrifice of praise,” referring to Hebrews 13:15. In many circles this notion of a “sacrifice of praise” almost becomes cliché. (Perhaps because worship does not often come at much cost, especially compared with the sacrifices of saints who’ve gone before us.) But when we worship with folks of various traditions, there are times when we may hear a prayer that uses language we might not naturally use or sing a song that isn’t really our style. That is part of what it means to be a member of a community as diverse as the church is. And perhaps that also helps shed some light on why it might require some sacrifice for us to give up ourselves.

When a song isn’t working for you, consider praising God, because that probably means it is working for someone else who is very different from you. Offer your worship as a sacrifice rather than requiring others to sacrifice for your pleasure or contentment. There is something to the notion of becoming one as God is one; it doesn’t mean that we are the same; it just means that we are united by one Spirit. After all, we can become one only if there are many of us to begin with.

Liturgy puts a brake on narcissism. Certainly, there is something beautiful about contemporary worship, where we can take old things and add a little spice to them, like singing hymns to rock tunes or reciting creeds as spoken word rhymes. But liturgy protects us from simply making worship into a self-pleasing act. So if a song or prayer doesn’t quite work for you, be thankful that it is probably really resonating with someone who is different from you, and offer a sacrifice of praise.

